PMA treatment, and not retinoic acid treatment of the U937 cells acts in inducing NF-KB expression in the nuclei.

When U937 cells were infected with HIV-1, no induction of NF-KB factor was detected, whereas high level of progeny virions was produced, suggesting that this factor was not required for viral replication.

Positive and negative regulation of immunoglobulin gene expression by a novel B-cell-specific enhancer element.

Tandem copies of this 67-bp MnlI-AluI fragment, when fused to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene driven by the conalbumin promoter, stimulated transcription in B cells but not in Jurkat T cells or HeLa cells.

In agreement with the results of gel retardation assays, tandem copies of the E6 motif stimulated transcription in ARH77 and Raji cells but not in Jurkat or HeLa cells.

In striking contrast to the mouse Ig heavy-chain enhancer, in which the octamer motif acts as a B-cell-specific enhancer element, the human enhancer contains an octamerlike sequence with one base substitution which bound octamer-binding proteins with only very low affinity and showed no enhancer activity of its own.

Moreover, simian virus 40 enhancer activity was blocked by the MnlI-AluI fragment in HeLa cells but not in B cells.

Thus, the novel enhancer element identified in this study is probably a target site for both positive and negative factors.

The rate of LTR-directed gene expression increased in response to treatment with either a phorbol ester or tumor necrosis factor alpha if either the NFAT-1 or NF kappa B binding sites were deleted, but failed to respond to these mitogenic stimuli if both sequences were absent.

Neither deletion of NF kappa B nor deletion of NFAT-1 decreased activation of viral replication by phorbol ester.

Employing the EBV-transformed human B cell line SKW6.4, we demonstrate that platelet-activating factor significantly alters membrane phospholipid metabolism indicated by the incorporation of 32P into phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, and phosphatidic acid but not significantly into phosphatidylethanolamine at concentrations ranging from 10(-9) to 10(-6) M.

The inactive precursor, lyso-platelet-activating factor, at a concentration as high as 10(-7) M had no effect on any of the membrane phospholipids.

Receptor transcripts were 4.6 kilobases (kb), and no variant sizes were observed.

Levels of RNA coding for the receptor were not modulated by exposure to high levels of ligand.

Steady-state levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA were not affected by terminal differentiation of HL-60 toward either granulocytes or macrophages.

In contrast, nondividing peripheral blood lymphocytes from normal individuals did not express 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor RNA;

The Thy-1 gene promoter resembles a " housekeeping " promoter in that it is located within a methylation-free island, lacks a canonical TATA box, and displays heterogeneity in the 5'-end termini of the mRNA.

Using transgenic mice, we show that this promoter does not confer any tissue specificity and is active only in a position-dependent manner.

However, these genes are not constitutively active in B lymphocytes, suggesting that other regulatory mechanisms must play a role in determining the patterns of expression.

No group differences in cortisol levels were observed, nor were glucocorticoid receptor number and cortisol levels correlated.

The present data, along with other findings of HPA abnormalities in PTSD, support the possibility of a greater negative feedback sensitivity at one or more levels of the HPA axis.

Using recombinant HBxAg protein, we found HBxAg-specific stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with acute hepatitis B virus infection (6 of 6) and chronic hepatitis B virus infection (6 of 17) but not in healthy individuals.

Five T-cell clones specific for a T-cell epitope located at the carboxyterminal region of HBxAg were established and found to belong to the CD2/CD4-positive, CD8-negative subtype.

In patients suffering from Cushing 's syndrome, the circadian rhythm of plasma cortisol either disappeared or was inverted while that of GR did not significantly deviate from the normal subjects.

In lymphocytes activated either by PHA or OKT3 ( but not in resting cells), a 50-kDa species cross-reacting with a monoclonal antibody against the intestinal vitamin D receptor was detected.

Two splice alternatives were identified that were not previously observed in human TCF-1.

These studies have been extended to show that ( i ) a mutant EBV strain lacking the gene encoding EBNA 2 fails to switch from Wp to Cp usage in primary B lymphocytes, although the virus contains a functional Cp; ( ii ) a region from -429 to -245 base pairs upstream of Cp is essential for Cp activity in B lymphocytes, but only in the context of upstream and downstream sequences; ( iii ) this region contains an EBNA 2-dependent enhancer; and ( iv ) DNase I protection employing nuclear extracts from B and T lymphocytes revealed a B-cell-specific footprint in the region of the EBNA 2-dependent enhancer.

These findings indicate that corticosteroid resistance in bronchial asthma can not be explained by abnormalities in corticosteroid receptor characteristics.

The induction of AP1 by okadaic acid suggests that protein phosphatases 1 and 2A (PP1 and PP2A) may be involved in T cell activation as important negative regulators of the transcription factor AP1.

In each cohort there was only one case with a negative reaction of the primary tumor and a positive reaction with the isolated tumor cells from the pleural effusions.

Oct-2 mRNA levels and both Oct-2 and NF-kappa B proteins in nuclear extracts were not altered by treatment with TGF-beta.

In contrast, levels of the transcriptional factor AP-1, which is not known to be important in B cell Ig production, were reduced by TGF-beta.

The mechanism by which TGF-beta inhibits Ig chain synthesis is unclear although it does not involve inhibition of the binding of NF-kappa B or Oct-2 to their respective target sequences.

This study examines the regions of the HIV promoter required for HHV-6 transactivation in a heterogeneous population of primary human T lymphocytes with or without antigenic stimulation.

However, this mutated NF kappa B promoter was not transactivated during HHV-6 ( GS ) infection or after cotransfection with pZVB70 or pZVB10.

The other gene, designated Rhom-3, is not on chromosome 11 but also retains homology to the LIM domain of rhombotin.

Preincubation of cells with 1,25-(OH)2D3 had no effect on the time course of IL-1 beta mRNA appearance in response to LPS.

However, exposure of U-937 cells to 1,25-(OH)2D3 increased by 200 % the level of IL-1 beta mRNA detected and decreased by three orders of magnitude the concentration of LPS required to achieve steady state mRNA levels equivalent to those observed in U-937 cells not preincubated with the hormone.2+o

It has been shown recently that in wild-type CEM cells but not in a dex-resistant, glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) -defective clone ICR-27 TK-3, dex induces GR mRNA.

Lavage T-lymphocytes from patients with tuberculosis or with sarcoidosis, but not those from normal control subjects, expressed 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors as demonstrated by binding of [3H]1,25(OH)2D3, which was inhibited by the presence of excess unlabeled 1,25(OH)2D3, but not by the presence of unlabeled 25(OH)D3 (receptor-positive lymphocytes: sarcoidosis, 20 ± 12%; tuberculosis, 31 ± 17%).

In contrast, blood lymphocytes from patients with granulomatous diseases did not express detectable 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors.

Inhibition of transcription factors belonging to the rel/NF-kappa B family by a transdominant negative mutant.

A mutant of KBF1/p50 ( delta SP ), unable to bind to DNA but able to form homo- or heterodimers, has been constructed.

This mutant also functions in vivo as a trans-acting dominant negative regulator:

An iron-responsive element (IRE) motif has been identified in the 5'-untranslated region of the human erythroid ALAS mRNA, but is not present in the housekeeping ALAS mRNA.

A transcript of the ALAS IRE, mutated in the conserved loop of the IRE, did not readily form this protein-RNA complex.

Although three sites in the TNF-alpha promoter (kappa 1, kappa 2, and kappa 3) specifically bind the transcription factor NF-kappa B in lymphoid nuclear extracts, TNF-alpha mRNA induction by PMA does not correlate with NF-kappa B binding activities displayed by different T and B cell lines.

Therefore, TNF-alpha mRNA induction by PMA, like its induction by virus and LPS, is not primarily mediated by NF-kappa B, but rather is mediated through other sequences and protein factors.

Surprisingly, multimers of kappa 1-kappa 3 can confer PMA inducibility on a heterologous promoter in a B (Raji), but not a T (HUT78) cell line.

However they are not functional on a truncated TNF-alpha promoter, indicating that promoter context and cell type specificity influence the PMA inducible function of these NF-kappa B binding sites.

The HB24 mRNA was absent or present at low levels in normal B and T lymphocytes;

The proband had no detectable DPD activity.

In vitro translated MAD-3 protein was found to specifically inhibit the DNA-binding activity of the p50/p65 NF-kappa B complex but not that of the p50/p50 KBF1 factor or of other DNA-binding proteins.

Starting with a replication-incompetent molecular clone of human immunodeficiency virus type 1, lacking all the NF-kappa B and Sp1 binding sites present in the native long terminal repeat (LTR), proviruses containing reconstructed LTRs with individual or combinations of NF-kappa B and Sp1 elements were generated and evaluated for their capacity to produce virus progeny following transfection-cocultivation.

For example, in experiments involving proviral clones with LTRs containing one or two NF-kappa B elements ( and no Sp1 binding sites ), a hierarchy of cellular permissivity to virus replication (peripheral blood lymphocytes = MT4 greater than H9 greater than CEM greater than Jurkat) was observed.

However, inhibition of HIV-1 replication appears not to be directly correlated with GSH levels.

We studied glucocorticosteroid receptor density and affinity on peripheral blood mononuclear cells by the glucocorticosteroid binding assay in 33 patients with SLE who had taken no glucocorticosteroid for the previous 6 months and in 32 healthy controls.

The binding affinity was not different between patients and controls.

There was no correlation between glucocorticosteroid receptor number and SLE disease activity.

The results were compared with those of 12 menopausal women without diabetes and 12 normal women of childbearing age.

There was no difference in glucocorticoid receptor number or affinity between depressed patients and recovered or control subjects.

Afternoon ACTH and cortisol concentrations did not differ significantly between the three groups.

These data support the view of an impaired ligand-induced plasticity of glucocorticoid receptor regulation rather than the hypothesis of decreased glucocorticoid receptor numbers during depression.

Binding of the drug inhibits isomerase activity, but studies with other prolyl isomerase inhibitors and analysis of cyclosporin-resistant mutants in yeast suggest that the effects of the drug result from the formation of an inhibitory complex between the drug and isomerase, and not from inhibition of isomerase activity.

A transcription factor, NF-AT, which is essential for early T-cell gene activation, seems to be a specific target of cyclosporin A and FK506 action because transcription directed by this protein is blocked in T cells treated with these drugs, with little or no effect on other transcription factors such as AP-1 and NF-kappa B.

FK506 and cyclosporin A block translocation of the cytoplasmic component without affecting synthesis of the nuclear subunit.

Furthermore, activation of PKC was pertussis-toxin-sensitive and was associated with the detection of an NF kappa B protein in nuclear extracts of M-CSF-induced blood monocytes but not in monocytes exposed to medium treatment only.

Phorbol activation was positively modulated by Ca2+ influx while TNF alpha activation was not.

TNF alpha did not activate cAMP production and its signal was not modulated by cAMP activators.

Moreover, cAMP activators did not activate NF-kappa B in Jurkat cells.

Thus, TNF alpha-induced NF-kappa B activation was found to be mediated by none of the major signal-mediating kinases such as protein kinase C (PKC), protein kinase A, or Ca(2+)-regulated kinases.

Furthermore, we found that cytoplasmic acidification facilitated NF-kappa B activation by both TNF alpha and PKC, by a mechanism that increases NF-kappa B/I kappa B dissociation without affecting the NF-kappa B translocation step.

Glucocorticoid receptors (GcR) were determined by a whole cell assay in human mononulear leukocytes (hMNL) from control subjects, patients receiving glucocorticoid therapy for systemic diseases and Cushing 's disease patients with or without ketoconazole therapy.

In this group, however, receptor levels and morning plasma cortisol values showed a negative correlation, indicating a subtle down-regulatory effect.

Finally, we did not observed either up-regulation or antagonism of GcR by ketoconazole treatment, at the time that cortisol levels of patients with Cushing 's disease were reduced.

This indicates that the beneficial effects of ketoconazole in Cushing 's disease are due to adrenal cortisol suppression and not to interaction with GcR of target cells, and that the process of GcR regulation in hMNL is a complex phenomenon awaiting further elucidation.

the number of glucocorticoid receptors per cell (Ro) and the binding affinity (Kd) for dexamethasone were , however, not significantly different (Ro: 7687 ± 1750 vs 7347 ± 1285 sites/cell; Kd: 7.7 ± 2.4 vs 7.4 ± 1.7 nM at 24 degrees C).

After weight gain (14 ± 2 to 16 ± 2 kg/m2), receptor numbers were 8421 ± 2126 (pre) and 9011 ± 500 (post) sites/cell, which are not significantly different (P greater than 0.2);

CONCLUSIONS Hypercortisolaemia does not down-regulate the lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptors in anorexia nervosa and a post-receptor defect might be involved in peripheral tissue resistance to the effects of glucocorticoid hormones in undernutrition.

Although absent in nonexpressing erythroleukemia cell lines, the DNase I site is present in uninduced myelomonocytic cell lines and is not changed after PMA induction.

This decrease was seen in patients who responded to the therapy as well as in those who did not.

In this paper, we demonstrate that the B2 factor is expressed in the cytosol of monocytes and macrophages as a DNA-binding protein, indicating that it is not associated with an inhibitor (IKB).

Furthermore, an antiserum against KBF1 (identical to 50 kDa NF-kappa B protein) reacted with the p50 of NF-GM2, indicating that the NF-GM2 polypeptide can not be immunologically differentiated from the 50 kDa subunit of NF-kappa B.

The purified NF-GM2 activated in vitro transcription from the kappa B enhancer, while it failed to stimulate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter harboring the GM2 sequence.

there was no apparent seasonal variation in GR.

Gender difference in the number of GR was not significant, although women showed slightly fewer GR.

However, in normal subjects, the GR in MNL did not demonstrate circadian variation, in contrast to concentrations of plasma cortisol.

All factors are induced in the nuclei of T cells upon activation with mitogens but not with exogenous IL-2 growth factor.

The larger crossreacting protein exhibited an electrophoretic mobility of 80 kDa, was localized in the cell cytosol, and appeared to be specific for activated lymphocytes since it was not detected in several other human cells including monocytes.

From information available in the literature on the substrate specificity of the three enzymes, it is clear that a cysteine is not accepted in any of the S2, S1, S1', and S2' subsites of cathepsin B and L, and not in the S1 and S1' subsites of cathepsin D.

We have conducted functional studies of the enhancer elements of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) using the human T-cell lines Jurkat and MOLT 4, which are negative for HTLV-I, and MT-2 and TL-Mor, which carry the proviral genome of HTLV-I.

However, the C26 element alone, even when repeated, could not be activated by p40tax, unlike other NF-kappa B-binding elements.

The finding that dexamethasone has no effect on TPA-induced activation of PKC suggests that this glucocorticoid inhibits signals downstream or parallel to this enzyme.

Nuclear run-on assays demonstrate that : ( 1 ) induction of c-jun and c-fos expression by TPA is regulated by transcriptional mechanisms, ( 2 ) TPA-induced expression of c-jun and c-fos does not require protein synthesis, and ( 3 ) TPA-induced expression of both genes is inhibited at the transcriptional level by dexamethasone.

Charybdotoxin-sensitive, Ca(2+)-dependent membrane potential changes are not involved in human T or B cell activation and proliferation.

We demonstrate that charybdotoxin inhibits the ligand-induced transient membrane hyperpolarization in B and T cells in a dose-dependent fashion, without affecting changes in cytosolic Ca2+.

However, blockade of the Ca(2+)-activated K+ channel is not associated with changes in cell-cycle gene activation, IL-2 production, IL-2R expression or B and T cell mitogenesis.

These results imply that membrane potential changes secondary to the ligand-dependent opening of Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels are not involved in B and T lymphocyte activation and mitogenesis.

In vitro translated hGR was capable of selective DNA binding even in the absence of glucocorticoid.

Treatment with dexamethasone or the antiglucocorticoid RU486 had no additional effect on the DNA-binding capacity when receptor preparations were maintained at 0 C (no activation).

Oligonucleotides containing the consensus GRE were the most efficient competitors, and fragments containing regulatory sequences from glucocorticoid-repressible genes were somewhat competitive, whereas single stranded oligonucleotides were unable to compete for mouse mammary tumor virus-long terminal repeat DNA binding, except when competitor was present at extremely high concentrations.

Similarities between the effects of dexamethasone and RU486 suggest that the antiglucocorticoid properties of RU486 do not occur at the level of specific DNA binding.

When cloned in multiple copies this so-called TCEd (distal T cell element) acts as an inducible proto-enhancer element in E14 T lymphoma cells, but not in HeLa cells.

These differences in gene expression have not been molecularly defined.

In THP-1 cells with restricted HIV expression, there is an absence of DNA-protein binding complex formation with the HIV-1 promoter-enhancer associated with markedly less viral RNA production.

This absence of binding was localized to the NF-kappa B region of the HIV-1 enhancer;

Adding purified NF-kappa B protein to nuclear extracts from cells with restricted expression overcomes this lack of binding.

Antiserum specific for NF-kappa B binding proteins, but not c-rel-specific antiserum, disrupted heterodimer complex formation.

We have determined that the developmental control of immunoglobulin kappa 3' enhancer ( kappa E3' ) activity is the result of the combined influence of positive- and negative-acting elements.

We show that a central core in the kappa E3' enhancer is active at the pre-B-cell stage but is repressed by flanking negative-acting elements.

The negative-acting sequences repress enhancer activity in a position- and orientation-independent manner at the pre-B-cell stage.

We have isolated a human cDNA clone encoding a zinc finger protein (NF-E1) that binds to the negative-acting segment of the kappa E3' enhancer.

In contrast mRNA representing pAT 591/EGR2 was not expressed in these cells.

cAMP-dependent regulation of proenkephalin by JunD and JunB: positive and negative effects of AP-1 proteins.

As a homodimer JunB is unable to bind the enhancer; however in the presence of c-Fos, high-affinity binding is observed.

The resistant patients showed no significant improvements in airflow limitation.

Phytohemagglutinin ( PHA ) -induced proliferation of peripheral blood T lymphocytes from the sensitive but not the resistant asthmatic patients was significantly (p less than 0.01) inhibited by dexamethasone (10(-7) mol/L), reflecting a shift of the dose-response curve.

The numbers and binding affinities of these receptors could not account for the observed difference in the susceptibility of these cells to functional inhibition by dexamethasone in vitro.

These results suggest that clinical glucocorticoid resistance in chronic asthma does not reflect abnormal glucocorticoid clearance but may be due at least partly to a relative insensitivity of T lymphocytes to glucocorticoids.

This lack of sensitivity is unexplained but is not attributable to abnormalities of cellular glucocorticoid receptors.

Thus these data suggest that the phorbol myristate-induced signal (prolonged protein kinase C activation?) can not be inhibited by prior incubation with dexamethasone and it also protects the induced mRNA for the degradative action of dexamethasone.

Identification of transcriptional suppressor proteins that bind to the negative regulatory element of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1.

Two different proteins which independently bound to neighboring sequences within the negative regulatory element (NRE) of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) were detected in the nuclear extract of a virus-infected human T cell line.

However, this factor did not bind to a typical AP-1 site.

Thus, each factor may function as a novel negative regulator of transcription.

We have shown that the Z gene product, which binds to AP-1 sites as a homodimer and has sequence similarity to c-Fos, can efficiently activate the EBV early promoter, BMRF1, in certain cell types (i.e. , HeLa cells) but not others (i.e. , Jurkat cells).

Synergistic transactivation of the BMRF1 promoter by the Z/c-myb combination appears to involve direct binding by the Z protein but not the c-myb protein.

A dimerization cofactor of HNF-1 alpha (DCoH) was identified that displayed a restricted tissue distribution and did not bind to DNA, but , rather, selectively stabilized HNF-1 alpha dimers.

The formation of a stable tetrameric DCoH-HNF-1 alpha complex, which required the dimerization domain of HNF-1 alpha, did not change the DNA binding characteristics of HNF-1 alpha, but enhanced its transcriptional activity.

However, DCoH did not confer transcriptional activation to the GAL4 DNA binding domain.

The findings are the first to demonstrate membrane binding sites with a high affinity for aldosterone, but not for cortisol.

The second male patient had slight hypertension without hypokalemia.

In the second male patient, no abnormalities were found.

In contrast, mild oxidation with glucose oxidase selectively inhibits p75 and p85 binding while not blocking p50 and p55 interactions.

In vitro-translated proteins, truncated downstream of the Rel domain and excluding the repeats, bind kappa B sites.

LDP not only increases plasma estradiol levels, but also increases the leucocytic ER levels.

This method could be quite useful to detect not only CAG repeats in SBMA but also other polymorphic dinucleotide and trinucleotide repeats.

These findings show that nuclear NF-kappa B is necessary to activate the kappa B enhancer, while KBF1 by itself is not sufficient.

Estrogen receptor positive (ER+: MCF-7) and negative (ER-: MDA-MB-231) human breast cancer cell lines were utilized to evaluate the effects of tamoxifen (TAM) and estradiol (E2) on modulation of breast cancer target susceptibility to lysis by lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells.

E2-stimulated ER+ cells were more susceptible to lysis by LAK cells than corresponding TAM-treated or control cells, while treatment of ER- cells with either E2 or TAM alone did not alter from control their susceptibility to this immune-mediated lysis.

Deletions upstream of the PRDII element increased transcription in the uninduced extract, indicating predominantly negative regulation of the promoter.

Small apolar substitutions (11 alpha-methyl, 11 alpha-fluoromethyl) did not markedly decrease the affinity for the vitamin D receptor, but larger (11 alpha-chloromethyl or 11 alpha- or 11 beta-phenyl) or more polar substitutions (11 alpha-hydroxymethyl, 11 alpha-(2-hydroxyethyl] decreased the affinity to less than 5% of that of 1 alpha,25-OH)2D3.

The regulation of gene expression during lymphocyte differentiation is a complex process involving interactions between multiple positive and negative transcriptional regulatory elements.

This study concerns 9 iv drug abusers with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) who developed hypercortisolism without the clinical signs or metabolic consequences of hypercortisolism.

Glucocorticoid receptor density was increased in AIDS patients with an Addisonian picture (group 1; 16.2 ± 9.4 fmol/million cells) compared to values in 12 AIDS patients without an Addisonian picture (group 2; 6.05 ± 2.6 fmol/million cells; P less than 0.01) and sex- and age-matched controls (3.15 ± 2.3 fmol/million cells; P less than 0.01).

Mutations affecting the 5' guanine residues of the kappa B site were unable to compete for these NF-kappa B-related proteins.

The AP-1 site at -150 bp, but not the NF-kappa B site, is likely to represent the major target of protein kinase C in the interleukin 2 promoter.

We show that induction of a trimer of the NFAT and Oct sites is not sensitive to phorbol ester treatment, and that mutations in the NF-kappa B site have no effect on inducibility of the IL-2 promoter.

Our results indicate that the AP-1 site at -150 bp represents a major, if not the only, site of PKC responsiveness in the IL-2 promoter.

The addition of antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos significantly inhibited IL 6-induced IgM production by SKW 6.4 cells (p less than 0.001), whereas control oligonucleotides had no inhibitory effect.

Gel electrophoresis mobility shift assays and DNaseI footprinting assays demonstrate that these negative regulatory sequences are recognized differently by proteins present in nuclear extracts obtained from HeLa and K562 cells.

The suppressive activity was lost in molecules, lacking the sugar moiety or the lipid moiety.

Furthermore, in time kinetics, gangliosides were effective for up to 30 min after addition of LPS, but not thereafter.

On the other hand, phorbol ester-induced production of O2- was similar in cells treated with and without gangliosides.

T cell-specific negative regulation of transcription of the human cytokine IL-4.

A novel T cell-specific negative regulatory element (NRE) composed of two protein-binding sites were mapped in the 5' flanking region of the IL-4 gene: -311CTCCCTTCT-303 (NRE-I) and -288CTTTTTGCTT-TGC-300 (NRE-II).

After 3 h incubation the specific binding power with [3H] Dex was decreased by 23.3 ± 10.0, 32.2 ± 13.2 and 54.3 ± 9.2% (P greater than 0.05, P greater than 0.05 and P less than 0.01 as compared with the control value of 100 in the absence of insulin) respectively in the presence of 20 mU/L (physiological testing concentration), 200 mU/L (physiological upper limit) and 2,000 mU/L (pharmacological concentration) insulin in the incubation medium.

In contrast, anti-AIM mAb did not induce any change in the binding activity of NF-kappa B, a transcription factor whose activity is also regulated by protein kinase C.

The increase in AP-1-binding activity was accompanied by the marked stimulation of the transcription of c-fos but not that of c-jun.

Surprisingly, however, neither of these proteins bound in vitro to EBS1 or EBS2.

These results can not be explained by receptor down-regulation due to higher levels of mineralocorticoids in PIH;

Mean values for plasma aldosterone were not different between the two groups, but significant differences were observed for MR (preeclampsia, 81 ± 44 receptors/cell; controls, 306 ± 168) and SPD (preeclampsia, 65 ± 7 mV; controls, 12 ± 5 mV).

In spite of its association with p50 in vitro, however, we found a lymphoid cell-specific nuclear factor in vivo that contains c-Rel but not p50 epitopes;

Expression of the human RAR-alpha in receptor-negative erythroblasts conferred RA-induced regulation of differentiation to the otherwise unresponsive cells, thus showing that the RAR-alpha is essential for the RA effect.

Stability of the c-fos and c-jun mRNA was not affected by LTB4, as assessed after actinomycin D treatment.

no additional DNA segments with enhancer activity were identified in the human IL-4 gene.

The P sequence does not share homology with the 5' upstream sequence of the IL-2 gene, even though surrounding sequences of the IL-4 gene share high homology with the IL-2 gene.

Glucocorticoid receptor binding in three different cell types in major depressive disorder: lack of evidence of receptor binding defect.

2 . Mononuclear leukocytes binding to glucocorticoid correlated significantly with polymorphonuclear leukocytes binding to glucocorticoid, but both determinations failed to differentiate major depressive disorder and control subjects.

3 . Initial and post-dexamethasone in vitro fibroblast binding to glucocorticoid was not different between major depressive disorder and non-depressed control subjects.

Specific nuclear translocation of [3H]calcitriol/VDR was examined after exposure of whole cells to 10(-9) M/l calcitriol in the presence and absence of a 500-fold excess of unlabeled ligand and subsequent isolation of nuclei.

Pulse exposure of HL60 to radiolabeled hormone for 3 h followed by culture in medium without serum and calcitriol lead to nuclear retention of approximately 1600 radiolabeled VDR by 8 h and approximately 1000 VDR by 24 h.

Radiolabeled hormone/receptor complexes of nuclei isolated from cells exposed for 3 h to radiolabeled hormone--in contrast to identical experiments with intact cells--did not disappear from the nuclear compartment upon incubation of nuclei with identical concentrations of the unlabeled compound.

This report directly demonstrates that OTF-2 but not OTF-1 regulates the DRA gene.

In contrast, OTF-1-enriched protein fractions did not affect DRA gene transcription although it functionally enhanced the transcription of another gene.

In fibroblasts from patients with hereditary hypercholesteremia of homozygous type the number of glucocorticoid receptors did not exceed 10 % of their content in normal cells.

Tumor necrosis factor induced slightly c-fos and had almost no effect on c-jun and AP1.

Plasma aldosterone and cortisol and lymphocyte subsets were not different in the two groups.

These data show that aged subjects have reductions of corticosteroid receptors that are not associated with increase of related steroids and that this situation probably represents a concomitant of the normal aging process.

T3SO4 had no thyromimetic effect on the activity of Ca(2+)-ATPase in human erythrocyte membranes at doses up to 10,000 times the maximally effective dose of T3 (10(-10) mol/L).

In GH4C1 pituitary cells, T3SO4 failed to displace [125I]T3 from nuclear receptors in intact cells or soluble preparations.

Thus, T3SO4 was not directly thyromimetic in either an isolated human membrane system or a pituitary cell system in which nuclear receptor occupancy correlates with GH synthesis.

Propylthiouracil (50 mumol/L) did not affect the action of T3SO4, suggesting that deiodination was not important for this activity of T3SO4.

Thus, it appears  T3SO4 has no intrinsic biological activity, but , under certain circumstances, may be reactivated by desulfation.

Although NF-AT has not been cloned or purified, there is evidence that it is a major target for immunosuppression by cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506 (refs 2-7).

Pretreatment with IFN-gamma potentiates the IFN-alpha-induced protection, but IFN-gamma alone does not have any antiviral activity.

ISG15 mRNA accumulation in U937 cells is not detectable before 6 h of IFN-alpha treatment, peaks at 24 h, and requires protein synthesis.

Although IFN-gamma alone does not induce ISG expression, IFN-gamma pretreatment markedly increases and hastens ISG expression and transcriptional induction.

Little effect was observed with 50-kDa forms of p105 NF-kappa B or rel, in combination with p65 or full-length c-rel, which do not stimulate the HIV enhancer in these cells.

Activation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer is not dependent on NFAT-1.

The putative NFAT-1 region is not required for the response to anti-CD3 or to mitogens in T-cell, B-cell, or monocyte/macrophage leukemia lines, nor is it a cis-acting negative regulatory element.

Long term culture of TPA-differentiated U-937 cells in the absence of phorbol ester for 32-36 days resulted in a process of retrodifferentiation.

Moreover, this site is occupied by BSAP in vivo in a CD19-expressing B-cell line but not in plasma or HeLa cells.

PMA treatment induced CD3 and CD25 (IL-2R) receptors on the parental line and on other ethyl-methanesulfonate-derived subclones, but not on these two mutants.

Chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) assays using the HIV-1 ( -139 ) long terminal repeat-CAT construct showed no PMA induction of CAT activity in these subclones (unlike the parental line and other subclones).

Okadaic acid, an inhibitor of phosphatases 1 and 2A, did not overcome the defect in these subclones.

Thus, reduced levels of PKC-induced nuclear NF-kB activity in two T cell subclones did not affect their normal cell growth, but correlated with a pronounced reduction in their susceptibility to HIV-1 infection.

Except for PGF2 alpha, HHT and 15-HETE no detectable quantities of eicosanoids were found in the non-tumor material, whereas in the malignant tumor material substantial quantities of a number of eicosanoid metabolites were present.

c-myc did not correlate with c-fos and c-jun protein expression.

Stronger c-myc mRNA expression was detected in labial salivary glands of patients with longer disease duration (p less than or equal to 0.002) and more intense T lymphocyte infiltrates (p less than 0.05) although these patients revealed no hypergammaglobulinemia.

Transfection of an Fc gamma RII-negative B-cell line with complementary DNA 's encoding the two splice products and various receptor mutants indicated that the insertion was responsible for preventing both Fc gamma RII-mediated endocytosis and Fc gamma RII-mediated antigen presentation.

The insertion was not required for Fc gamma RII to modulate surface immunoglobulin-triggered B-cell activation.

In contrast, the insertion did contribute to the formation of caps in response to receptor cross-linking, consistent with suggestions that the lymphocyte but not macrophage form of the receptor can associate with the detergent-insoluble cytoskeleton.

While this expectation may be realized in some cases, we have not found evidence for it.

We found that the relative efficiency of the enhancers is approximately the same, irrespective of the type of promoter used, i.e. , there was no strong preference for any given enhancer/promoter combination.

Notably, we do not see particularly strong transcription when the immunoglobulin kappa enhancer ( or the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer) is used to activate a kappa gene promoter.

Furthermore, using DNA templates containing two copies of the PRDII domain linked to the rabbit beta globin gene, the purified polypeptides specifically stimulated NF-kappa B dependent transcription in an in vitro reconstitution assay as heterodimers but not as p50 homodimers.

Oct2 expression was unable to stimulate a multimerized octamer enhancer element in HeLa cells, however.

Moreover, this domain conferred enhancing activity when fused to the Oct1 protein, which by itself was unable to stimulate from a remote position.

The programmed activation/repression of transcription factors in early hematopoietic differentiation has not yet been explored.

Class II antigen expressing T-cell lines maintained contacts identical to B-cell lines, while class II-negative T-cell lines exhibited no interactions.

In contrast, the class II-positive nonlymphoid glioblastoma cell line does not exhibit interactions at the octamer site despite the presence of the ubiquitous OTF-1 factor and an open binding site.

Deletions in this promoter indicated that this upregulation was mediated through the NF-kappa B- but not the AP-1-binding motif, by bona fide p50/p65 heterodimers.

In contrast to the transient NF-kappa B activation induced by phorbol ester, the permanent NF-kappa B translocation induced by HIV infection was not dependent on PKC isoenzymes alpha and beta as shown by the use of a specific inhibitor (GF 109203X).

The details of the regulatory mechanism that selects particular loci for rearrangement are still not known.

It seems that the rearrangement of the TCR gamma loci in the gamma delta lineage may not always take place at a developmental stage strictly equivalent to the rearrangement of TCR beta in the alpha beta lineage, and it is not clear just how early the two lineages diverge.

Whereas peripheral T cells can undergo forms of positive selection (by antigen-driven clonal expansion) and negative selection (by abortive stimulation leading to anergy or death), neither is exactly the same phenomenon that occurs in the thymic cortex.

The genes that need to be induced for this response are not yet identified, but it is unquestionably a form of activation.

It is interesting that in humans and rats, cortical thymocytes undergoing negative selection can still induce IL-2R alpha expression and even be rescued in vitro, if exogenous IL-2 is provided.

Perhaps murine thymocytes are denied this form of rescue because they shut off IL-2R beta chain expression at an earlier stage or because they may be uncommonly Bcl-2 deficient (cf. Sentman et al. , 1991; Strasser et al. , 1991).

Even so, medullary thymocytes remain at least partially susceptible to negative selection even as they continue to mature.

CsA was found not to inhibit lck gene expression, nor the activity of the lck gene product.

A Tat-responsive element is found upstream within the viral promoter that in glial-derived cell lines allows transactivation in the absence of TAR.

PMA, which directly activates PKC, mimicked the effect of the lectins on c-Fos and c-Jun, but elevation of either intracellular Ca2+ or cAMP levels had little or no effect.

The protein expressed by the v-erb A oncogene binds to DNA and acts as a dominant negative inhibitor of both the thyroid hormone receptor and the closely related retinoic acid receptor.

Threonine 78 lies within the D-box of the v-erb A protein, a region thought to mediate receptor-receptor dimerizations, and is not in physical proximity to the serine at position 61.

BSAP has been identified previously as a transcription factor that is expressed at early, but not late, stages of B-cell differentiation.

All of this evidence indicates that the transcription factor BSAP may not only play an important role in B-cell differentiation but also in neural development and spermatogenesis.

In contrast, no effect on the levels of the octamer binding proteins, Oct-1 or Oct-2, were found.

Although okadaic acid provides a potent inductive signal for AP-1 and NF-kappa B it did not induce either B cell proliferation or immunoglobulin secretion.

However, Nef does not affect the DNA-binding activity of other transcription factors implicated in HIV-1 regulation, including SP-1, USF, URS, and NF-AT.

These results indicate that defective recruitment of NF-kappa B may underlie Nef 's negative transcriptional effects on the HIV-1 and interleukin 2 promoters.

Activation of the IL-6 promoter by LTB4 was not only associated with accumulation of the respective transcripts but resulted in synthesis of functional IL-6 protein as well.

In addition, LTB4 mediated transactivation of a heterologous promoter construct containing the NF-chi B or the NF-IL6 enhancer, but not the AP-1 enhancer.

The signaling events mediating this effect appeared to involve the release of H2O2, since LTB4 failed to induce NF-chi B or NF-IL6 in the presence of the scavenger of H2O2, N-acetyl-L-cysteine.

Their action mechanism is not completely cleared.

The estrogens participate in the regulation of practically all the reproductive and sexual events of the female, although the intracellular actions by which they take place are not well known and the proposed models do not adequately satisfy the questions.

Currently it is accepted the existence of a cytoplasmic and/or nuclear receptor, without explaining satisfactorily how the hormones come to the nucleus.

To determine whether such transdominant Rev proteins could provide long-term protection against HIV infection without affecting T cell function, T leukemia cell lines were stably transduced with a retroviral vector encoding a transdominant mutant of the Rev protein, M10.

While all the M10-expressing cell lines remained infectable by HIV-1, these same cells failed to support a productive replication cycle when infected with a cloned isolate of HIV-1.

Expression of M10 did not affect induction of HIV transcription mediated by the kappa B regulatory element or Tat.

Importantly, constitutive expression of Rev M10 did not alter the secretion of interleukin 2 in response to mitogen stimulation of EL-4 and Jurkat cells.

The inhibition of HIV infection in cells stably expressing a transdominant Rev protein, in the absence of any deleterious effect on T cell function, suggests that such a strategy could provide a therapeutic effect in the T lymphocytes of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients.

However, these studies have used a limited number of known kappa B DNA motifs, and the question of the optimal DNA sequences preferred by each homodimer has not been addressed.

Contrary to previous assumptions, we observed that p65 homodimers can interact with a subset of DNA sequences not recognized by p50 homodimers.

Using either a p50- or p65-selected kappa B motif, which displayed differential binding with respect to the other protein, little to no binding was observed with the heterodimeric NF-kappa B complex.

Similarly, in transfection experiments in which the selective kappa B binding sites were used to drive the expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct, the p65- and p50-selected motifs were activated only in the presence of p65 and p50/65 (a chimeric protein with the p50 DNA binding domain and p65 activation domain) expression vectors, respectively, and neither demonstrated a significant response to stimuli that induce NF-kappa B activity.

We have biochemically and functionally characterized a new transcription factor, NP-TCII, which is present in nuclei from unstimulated T and B lymphocytes but is not found in nonhematopoietic cells.

On the first day of the disease, glucocorticoid receptor capacity was significantly decreased without alteration of the receptor-ligand affinity, whereas on days 4 and 12 the number of receptor sites was normal again.

Since previous studies have demonstrated that the c-jun gene is autoinduced by Jun/AP-1, we also studied transcription of c-jun promoter (positions -132/+170)-reporter gene constructs with and without a mutated AP-1 element.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Similarly, IL-2 activates NF-kappa B in the human monocytic cell line U 937, but not in resting human T-cells.

The average values from healthy volunteers did not differ significantly from those found in these children, though much broader range was found in patients.

OCA-B stimulates the transcription from an IgH promoter in conjunction with either Oct-1 or Oct-2 but shows no significant effect on the octamer/Oct-dependent transcription of the ubiquitously expressed histone H2B promoter and the transcription of USF- and Sp1-regulated promoters.

Analysis of a series of 5'-truncations showed several peaks of basal and PMA induced activity suggesting the presence of several positive and negative regulatory elements.

BHA was found to suppress not only PMA- or TNF-induced, but also constitutive, HIV-enhancer activity concomitant to an inhibition of NF-kappa B binding activity in both lymphoblastoid T (J.Jhan) and monocytic (U937) cell lines.

The anti-oxidative effect of BHA was accompanied by an increase in thiol, but not glutathione, content in stimulated and unstimulated T cell, whereas TNF stimulation itself barely modified the cellular thiol level.

Oxidative stress obtained by the addition of H2O2 to the culture medium of J.Jhan or U937 cells could not by itself induce NF-kappa B activation.

These observations suggest that TNF and PMA do not lead to NF-kappa B activation through induction of changes in the cell redox status.

In PHA-activated PBL, no age-related differences were observed in c-fos or jun B mRNA expression.

Characterization of a novel T lymphocyte protein which binds to a site related to steroid/thyroid hormone receptor response elements in the negative regulatory sequence of the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat.

Corticosteroids are the preeminent antiinflammatory agents although the molecular mechanisms that impart their efficacy have not been defined.

Moreover, the steroid receptor agonist cortisol (10 microM), but not its inactive metabolite tetrahydrocortisol (10 microM), diminished LPS-induced endothelial cell adhesiveness.

As in the adhesion studies, cortisol but not tetrahydrocortisol inhibited expression of ELAM-1 and ICAM-1 (both P &lt; 0.005, n = 3 or 4)9.

In contrast, sodium salicylate (1 mM) inhibited neither adhesion nor expression of these adhesion molecules.

REVs do not encode a transactivator targeted to the viral LTR, and cells infected with Marek 's disease virus, a herpesvirus with an overlapping host range, do not express factors that preferentially enhance expression from REV or avian sarcoma/leukemia virus LTRs.

The mechanism of HS2 enhancer function is not known.

In nonerythroid HL-60 cells in which the HS2 enhancer is inactive, long enhancer transcripts are not detectable.

In THP-1 cells, TPA also induced a new, faster-migrating NF kappa B species not induced in monocytes.

Protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine, but not cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase inhibitor HA-1004, also dramatically reduced constitutive levels of nuclear NF kappa B.

In contrast, antisense inhibition of Tax itself had no apparent effect on cell growth.

Proliferation of T cells was induced by immobilized anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb) in the presence or absence of an additional costimulatory signal delivered by anti-CD28 mAb.

Synergistic suppression of T-cell proliferation was observed when various concentrations of DEX and PGE2, but not DEX and ISO, were added to cultures.

This synergistic suppression could not be explained by an increase in cAMP accumulation in T cells stimulated with DEX and PGE2.

Targeted degradation of c-Fos, but not v-Fos, by a phosphorylation-dependent signal on c-Jun.

c-Jun protein isolated from phorbol ester-induced cells did not target c-Fos for degradation, which suggests that c-Fos is transiently stabilized after stimulation of cell growth.

v-Fos protein, the retroviral counterpart of c-Fos, was not susceptible to degradation targeted by c-Jun.

In addition, monocytes and IFN-U937 cells both responded to red cells sensitized with antibodies against a variety of specificities of assumed ( although not documented) clinical significance for blood transfusion recipients.

In contrast, monocytes and IFN-U937 cells responded only weakly to red cells sensitized with either anti-D in sera from mothers of babies unaffected by HDN, or with antisera containing high titre antibodies with specificities not normally associated with significantly reduced red cell survival.

The second (-365/-264) binds to nuclear factors, which appear to be different in basophils and T cells, and acts as a negative element in basophils and as a positive one in T cells.

Thus, this Alu repeat (90% identical to Alu consensus sequences) has evolved to become both a positive and negative regulator.

Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed significant aldosterone binding at a molecular weight of approximately 50000 Dalton which was absent with 1 microM cold aldosterone, but not cortisol in the binding media.

The presence of the sulfhydryl agent dithiothreitol did not affect results suggesting the absence of disulfide bridges in the steroid binding domain of the receptor.

IL-4 did not affect the stability of the c-fos and c-jun transcripts.

The ras-transformed lymphocytes displayed a fully functional IL-2r, as assessed by c-fos induction following treatment with IL-2; nevertheless, they were not growth stimulated by this lymphokine.

Somewhat unexpectedly, the constitutive p21ras activity did not cause an increased DNA binding of transcription factors PEA1 (AP1), PEA3, Oct-2 or NF-kB.

We can now study regulatory regions and functional domains of the protein in the context of a true erythroid environment, experiments that have not been possible heretofore.

If they can not, chimeric proteins can be tested to identify which amino acids distinguish the different family members.

We have isolated cDNA clones of myeloid differentiation primary response (MyD) genes, activated in the absence of de novo protein synthesis following induction for differentiation along either the macrophage or granulocyte lineage in human myeloblastic leukemia HL-60 cells.

HL-60 cells constitutively expressing an Egr-1 transgene (HL-60Egr-1) could be induced for macrophage, but not granulocyte, differentiation.

The trans-activation domain of E2 and Tax is interchangeable although they have no obvious sequence homology between them.

The viral trans-activators appear to target specific DNA binding protein such as NF-kB and Sp1 to cis-acting DNA site and promote lymphokine gene expression without TCR-mediated stimulation.

In immature hematopoietic cells, tal-1 and GATA-1 genes are coexpressed in committed progenitors cells (CD34+/CD38(2+)), whereas they are not detectable in the most primitive cells (CD34(2+)/CD38-).

Transactivation of PTHrP by Tax was seen in T cells but not in B-cell lines or fibroblasts.

A carboxy terminal Tax deletion mutant was deficient in transactivation of both the PTHrP and IL2R alpha promoters but not the HTLV-I long terminal repeat (LTR).

Exogenous provision of NFkB rescued IL2R alpha expression but not the PTHrP promoter.

This region binds an inducible, T-cell-specific factor over its 5' end, a site that is necessary for the expression of IL-3 in the absence of other upstream elements.

Furthermore, and despite a lack of sequence homology, the promoters of IL-3 and IL-2 share an organizational pattern of regulatory elements that is likely to be important for the T-cell-specific expression of these genes.

In contrast, NF-kappa B p50 alone fails to stimulate kappa B-directed transcription, and based on prior in vitro studies, is not directly regulated by I kappa B.

However, no loss of DNA binding activity is observed, presumably reflecting the unique C-terminal domain that is distinct from that present in NF-kappa B p65.

Using flow cytometry, we detected surrogate TG receptors on non-T ( but not on T) cells from 11 of 11 individuals studied (5 Hashimoto patients and 6 control donors).

This low frequency of response was no different from that previously detected using cultures of T cells and autologous dendritic cells.

Therefore, the successful generation of surrogate receptors on non-T cells is not associated with more efficient TG presentation of T cells.

Furthermore, the significance of the present study is that the T cells, not the antigen-presenting cells, are likely to be the limiting element in the T cell proliferative response to TG and other thyroid autoantigens.

To identify an EBNA2 dependent cis-acting element, various TP1 promoter-reporter gene constructs were transfected in the absence and presence of an EBNA2 expression vector into the established B-cell line BL41-P3HR1.

Two of these were not cell type specific, but the third was detected only in EBNA2 positive cell extracts.

In cotransfection experiments, oncogenic rats obviated the need for PKC stimulation but did not replace either the calcium signal or interleukin-1.

Overexpression of cJun or JunD, but not JunB, also eliminates the requirement for PMA, indicating that many but not all Jun- and Fos-related proteins functionally activate NF-AT-dependent transcription in the presence of the cytoplasmic component.

Fos proteins are not needed for this reconstitution, and although JunB is not functional, it can participate in the NF-AT DNA binding complex.

These inhibitory effects of c-Rel correlate with its DNA-binding activity but not with its ability to heterodimerize with p50, suggesting that c-Rel inhibition involves competition with p50/p65 for occupancy of the kappa B enhancer element.

To further evaluate the role of X box DNA-binding proteins in class II gene expression, the role of the X box region was examined in both class II-positive and -negative lymphoid cells.

In addition to the wild-type B cell line Raji, two class II transcriptional mutant cell lines, SJO and RJ2.2.5, and Jurkat, a class II negative T cell line, were examined.

In contrast to wild-type B cells, neither of the class II mutant cell lines could use the X box region to direct the expression of a transiently transfected reporter gene, indicating that the X box-dependent transcriptional pathway is defective in these cells.

The binding activity of the X1 box DNA-binding protein RFX was examined and found to be present in wild-type B cells and the mutant RJ2.2.5 but was absent in SJO and Jurkat.

A similar comparison with protease-treated extracts prepared from Jurkat cells demonstrated the presence of the band 1pk activity despite an absence of the native RFX activity.

In contrast, protease treatment and analysis of SJO extracts showed no detectable levels of the band 1pk activity.

Three mutants (-201/-184 NXS, -165/-148 NXS, and -147/-130 NXS) had effects on viral replication that were much more severe than the effects predicted from their performance in transfection analyses, and the effects of two LS mutations (-201/-184 NXS and -183/-166 NXS) were not predicted by their effects in transfection.

In the cell types tested, the LS mutations indicated an apparent requirement not only for the intact NF-kappa B and SP1-binding sites but also for several regions between -201 and -130 not previously associated with viral infectivity.

When ligated to the proIL-1 beta cap site-proximal region (located between -131 to +12), both the proIL-1 beta and the simian virus 40 enhancer elements functioned more efficiently in monocytes than in HeLa cells, which are not normally competent for IL-1 beta expression.

In contrast to T cells, in fibroblasts PILOT gene expression requires only one signal (PMA) and is not affected by CyA.

This observation directly demonstrates the existence of a Ca2+ signal-dependent regulatory element obligatory for expression of some genes in T cells but not in fibroblasts.

Control peptides corresponding to the normal pml and RAR alpha proteins were not recognized.

It is concluded that the bcr1 type-pml/RAR alpha fusion protein of APL contains an antigenic site, absent from the normal parent molecules and recognized by human CD4+ lymphocytes.

In gel-shift assays, the -1280 element and the c-fos SRE cross-competed, whereas their functional and binding mutants did not.

Methylation interference analysis of the -65 region identified a pattern of contacts with nuclear factors resembling that for NF-Y, and an NF-Y-binding site and the proximal TSP 1 element cross-competed in gel-shift assays, whereas their binding mutants did not.

Hemin induction of K562 cells does not facilitate the binding of NF-E2 to its recognition site.

Although the -20 GATA binding site (AGATAA) is also a potential TFIID binding site, it does not bind TFIID.

Proliferation to tetanus toxoid did not differ significantly between the groups.

Responses to jun-B were not related to age, sex, or human leukocyte antigen status.

Site-directed mutagenesis further demonstrated that the enhancer function of one of the two NF-E2/AP1 motifs of HS-40 is mediated through its binding to NF-E2 but not AP1 transcription factor.

All sequence motifs within the functional core of HS-40, as mapped by transient expression analysis, appeared to bind a nuclear factor ( s ) in living K562 cells but not in nonerythroid cells.

This activation was not observed in undifferentiated embryocarcinoma F9 cells.

Using the DNA affinity precipitation assay, we observed that Tax1 is able to efficiently induce the binding of Rel, whereas PMA is not.

The Rel/NF-kappa B family of transcription factors is composed of two distinct subgroups, proteins that undergo proteolytic processing and contain SWI6/ankyrin repeats in their carboxyl termini (p105, p98), and those without such repeats that do not require processing (p65, c-Rel, RelB, and Dorsal).

These observations suggest a second pathway leading to NF-kappa B induction, in which processing of the precursors rather than phosphorylation of I kappa B plays a major role.

In contrast to MEL cells, however, K562 cells acquired a macrophage-like morphology and exhibited a complete failure to generate benzidine-positive cells.

In vivo the Sp1 site is bound only in myeloid (U937) cells, not in cervical carcinoma (HeLa) cells.

PBL constitutively express c-jun transcripts, and the level of c-jun mRNA is not altered by PHA activation in the absence or presence of EC.

In contrast, c-fos mRNA is absent from resting T cells and is induced on PHA activation.

EC alone do not induce c-fos mRNA but augment the level of c-fos mRNA in PHA-activated T cells by 3- to 10-fold.

Gel-shift analysis reveals the constitutive presence of nuclear factors in resting PBL that bind to the proximal AP-1 site of the IL-2 promoter and that contain immunoreactive c-Jun but not c-Fos protein.

Levels of other nuclear factors involved in IL-2 regulation were not altered by EC, although NFAT-DNA complexes migrated at a slightly different mobility.

The composition of NF-AT protein is still not fully elucidated.

There was no detectable binding of in vitro translated Jun/Fos heterodimer (AP-1) to the NF-AT sequence, and the NF-AT sequence was unable to inhibit the binding of Jun/Fos to the AP-1 sequence.

In contrast, U-937 cells induced by RA strongly increased their expression of CD23 mRNA and protein, whereas they completely lacked detectable CD14 cell surface or mRNA expression.

No lytic effect on the reporter cells could be measured, neither by cocultivation of activator cells nor by coincubation of BZLF 1-containing cell lysates.

Both Dex and CsA inhibited the binding of transcription factors AP-1 and NF-AT, but not of NF-kB and OCT-1/OAF, to their corresponding sites on the IL-2 gene promoter.

Dex inhibited the IL-2 promoter and the AP-1, but not the NF-AT and NF-kB plasmids.

In contrast, CsA inhibited the IL-2 promoter and the NF-AT, but not the AP-1 and NF-kB plasmids.

The expression of hGATA-3, a T cell-specific factor known to be involved in the regulation of the transcription of TcR delta locus, was analyzed by Northern blot, in cultured NK cell population and clones ( but not in freshly derived cell populations).

Finally, no transcription of the RAG-1 gene could be detected in all NK cell lines or clones analyzed.

To determine whether Nef affects the binding of cellular factors implicated in HIV-1 regulation, 32P-labeled oligonucleotides corresponding to the binding sites were incubated with nuclear extracts prepared from Nef-expressing T-cell lines that were not stimulated or were stimulated with T-cell mitogens.

Mitogen-mediated transcriptional activation of the CAT gene in this construct was inhibited in Nef-expressing cells but not in control cells.

These results can not be explained by receptor down-regulation due to higher level of mineralocorticoids of the zona glomerulosa.

The data show that hypertension in preeclamptic women can be treated by Urapidil without side effects or reflex-tachycardia.

Functional studies in extrarenal, non-epithelial cells such as smooth muscle cells and more recently circulating human lymphocytes have provided increasing evidence that aldosterone produces not only classical genomic effects, but also rapid, non-genomic effects on transmembrane electrolyte movements.

Such changes clearly can not be explained by genomic mechanisms, which are responsible for later effects than the membrane related rapid responses.

IFN-MCP was not inhibited by infection with dl343, despite the production of large amounts of both early (E1B, p55) and late (hexon) Ad proteins.

In contrast to E1A-negative, parental cell lines, IFN-MCP was blocked in Ad5 E1A-transfected epithelial and fibroblastic cell lines.

In contrast to the type I receptor, the type II IL-1R has a small cytoplasmic tail, and it is not clear whether this receptor is a signal-transducing or a regulatory molecule.

Here we report that the type II IL-1R does not mediate gene activation in Jurkat cells.

The precise molecular abnormalities that cause primary cortisol resistance have not been completely described.

Cells from TNFRp55-/-mutant mice lack expression of TNFRp55 but display normal numbers of high affinity TNFRp75 molecules.

Thymocyte development and lymphocyte populations are unaltered, and clonal deletion of potentially self-reactive T cells is not impaired.

However, TNF signaling is largely abolished, as judged by the failure of TNF to induce NF-kappa B in T lymphocytes from TNFRp55-deficient mice.

The cDNA hybridized to multiple transcripts in pre-B and B-cell lines, but transcripts were not detected at significant levels in plasmacytoma, T-cell, and nonlymphoid cell lines.

Analysis of DNA binding by deletion mutants of EBF identified an amino-terminal cysteine-rich DNA-binding domain lacking obvious sequence similarity to known transcription factors.

However, the molecular basis for the commitment of progenitors to the eosinophil lineage has not been determined.

Elf-1 binds exclusively to the underphosphorylated form of Rb and fails to bind to Rb mutants derived from patients with retinoblastoma.

This potent interleukin 2 ( IL-2 ) -dependent activation does not require monocytes or accessory cells.

TSH-R expression levels were variable, but displayed a close correlation to the expression of thyroid peroxidase (r = 0.703; P &lt; 0.05), thyroglobulin (r = 0.817; P &lt; 0.01), and the nuclear oncogene c-fos (r = 0.935; P &lt; 0.001), but not c-myc.

Overall, TSH-R transcript levels were low or absent in those thyroids in which expression of the major histocompatibility complex class I or II (MHC I or II) was high, thus establishing an inverse relation (MHC I, r = -0.791; P &lt; 0.01; MHC II, r = -0.784; P &lt; 0.01).

Thus p59fyn could replace the calcium ionophore but not activation of protein kinase C.

The presence of c-fos had a negative influence on GR function and correlated with the cell-specific synergistic or antagonistic activity of Jun with respect to GR;

high basal expression of c-fos as well as AP-1 DNA binding and transcriptional activity were observed in HeLa cells, but not in T cells.

These phenotypic effects are specifically attributable to the action of ectopically expressed GATA-2/ER because erythroblasts expressing exogenous GATA-2 are constitutively arrested in differentiation and because erythroid progenitors expressing either Gal/ER or GATA-3/ER do not display a hormone-responsive block in differentiation.

By comparison, there was no modification of the expression of CD4 antigen, which is expressed at high levels in these cells.

In contrast, there was no regulation by glucocorticoids of either the CD8 or CD4 antigens in the leukemic clone CEM C1.

Furthermore, no modification of the suppressor function in CEM C1 cells by dexamethasone was observed.

The results demonstrate that multidrug-resistant HL-60 cells, designated HL-60/vinc, fail to respond to TPA with an increase in c-jun transcripts or other phenotypic characteristics of monocytic differentiation.

The finding that HL-60/vinc/R cells respond to TPA with induction of a monocytic phenotype, but not c-jun expression, suggests that c-jun induction is not obligatory for monocytic differentiation.

Activity of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family with associated phosphorylation of c-Jun Y-peptide was markedly diminished in TPA-treated HL-60/vinc cells, but not in response to okadaic acid.

Further examination of this system has shown that the inhibition of HSV-1 replication by the antiviral drug acyclovir does not inhibit HSV-1-mediated induction of HIV-1 provirus.

In the transient-transfection assay, ICP0, but not ICP4, activated the HIV-1 long terminal repeat promoter region and the effect of ICP0 was greatly enhanced in the presence of the NF-kappa B binding proteins, suggesting that induction of the HIV-1 provirus involves cooperation between the HSV-1-activated cellular factor, NF-kappa B, and the virus-encoded transactivator, ICP0.

4 patients were receiving dopamine, which did not affect the GR count.

Despite a wide range, the mean GR count and affinity in MNC from septic patients did not differ from those in normal controls, suggesting that glucocorticoids could still be effective in the hemodynamic compensatory phase of sepsis.

The results were compared to those obtained with the parental granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( GM-CSF ) -dependent cell line, UT-7, which has a predominantly megakaryoblastic phenotype and is unable to proliferate continuously in the presence of Epo.

By Northern analysis, UT-7 cells expressed detectable levels of beta- and gamma-globin but not alpha-globin.

Globin chains (alpha, beta and gamma) were clearly detectable by affinity chromatography in UT-7 Epo but not in UT-7 cells.

The levels of GATA-1, Epo-R and globin mRNA expressed were not affected by a 24-hour incubation of either cell line with Epo, GM-CSF or interleukin-3 (IL-3).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Human peripheral blood monocytes (Mo) constitutively display the beta-chain of the receptor for IL-2, whereas expression of the IL-2R alpha-chain is not constitutive but inducible with IL-2.

The B cell NFAT complex, however, was not functional, since it failed to activate transcription from an NFAT-driven chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) construct.

Purified recombinant Jun and Fos proteins failed to bind directly to the NFAT motif.

However, when combined with unstimulated B or T cell extracts, full-length, but not truncated, Jun/Fos heterodimers were able to form an NFAT complex, indicating the presence of a constitutively expressed nuclear factor ( s ) in B and T cells necessary for the formation of the NFAT complex in both cell types.

An NFAT oligonucleotide carrying mutations in the 5' purine-rich part of the NFAT sequence failed to form a complex and to compete with the wild type motif for NFAT complex formation in both T and B cells.

Thus, positive autoregulation is neither a consequence nor the sole cause of growth arrest.

The degree of negative autoregulation in IM-9 cells and positive autoregulation in 6TG1.1 cells was unaffected by inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide.

In contrast, p65 delta, a naturally occurring splice variant, fails to markedly augment I kappa B protein levels.

However, X failed to react with a variety of antibodies against Rb or p107, implicating the involvement of an E1A-binding protein other than Rb or p107.

UV cross-linking experiments suggested that a distinct E2F DNA-binding protein is uniquely associated with the S-phase p107 complex and is not associated with Rb.

Occurrence of a silencer of the interleukin-2 gene in naive but not in memory resting T helper lymphocytes.

By contrast, memory cells, either in vitro activated helper T cells reverting to a resting state, or CD4+ T ( memory ) clones, or CD4+CD45RO+ T cells isolated ex vivo, no longer have a silencer.

We have previously shown that minimally oxidized LDL (MM-LDL) activated endothelial cells to increase their interaction with monocytes but not neutrophils, inducing monocyte but not neutrophil binding and synthesis of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and monocyte colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF).

Both induction of monocyte binding and mRNA levels for M-CSF by MM-LDL were not inhibited in protein kinase C-depleted endothelial cells.

Although endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule (ELAM) mRNA synthesis can be regulated by NF kappa B, ELAM was not expressed and ELAM mRNA was only slightly elevated in response to MM-LDL.

However, the p65 antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide had no significant effect on the production of reactive oxygen intermediates or on phagocytosis by these cells.

Remarkably, we observed that these samples displayed a persistent expression of the c-fos protooncogene, associated to an increased AP-1 DNA-binding activity, whereas no variations of CREB or NF-kB were detected.

Neither Bt2cAMP nor PMA individually mediated these sustained effects, which therefore appear as a consequence of the interplay between both metabolic stimuli.

On the contrary, other steroid hormones such as Tx, progesterone, and testosterone had no effect.

RESULTS : In the OM-10.1 promyelocytic model of chronic infection, TNF-alpha-induced HIV-1 expression also resulted in a substantial increase in 75 kd TNF receptor (TR75) expression although 55 kD TNF receptor (TR55) levels were not dramatically altered.

Antibody cross-linking of TR55, in the absence of exogenous TNF-alpha, induced maximal HIV-1 expression, an up-modulation of surface TR75, and nuclear NF-kappa B activity in OM-10.1 cultures.

They do not directly intercept intracellular signalling molecules.

So far, there are no drugs or therapy available that can provide protection against HIV-1 latency reactivation.

Nuclei of lymphocytes from FDC clusters were negative.

p65 was detected in the cytoplasm of FDC, whereas nuclei were negative.

c-Rel protein was detected only in the cytoplasm of lymphocytes and not in the nucleus and cytoplasm of FDC.

The hypothesis to be tested was whether or not humans exhibit a similar susceptibility to PCDDs/PCDFs with respect to the surface receptors found previously to respond to small doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in Callithrix jacchus.

There were two main goals: ( 1 ) to evaluate whether workers with a moderately increased PCDD/PCDF-body burden [25-140 ppt TCDD or 104-522 ppt I-TE in blood fat] exhibit changes in the surface receptors of white blood cells, as observed in previous studies in non-human primates, and ( 2 ) to clarify whether persons at the upper range [10-23 ppt TCDD or 30-90 ppt I-TE in blood fat] of the body burden reference values of a not particularly exposed population show detectable deviations in these immunological variables, when compared with persons at the lower and medium range [1-3 ppt TCDD or 9-29 ppt I-TE] of these body burden reference values.

Altogether, the data do not provide any evidence to support an assumption that moderately increased body burdens of PCDDs/PCDFs in adults induce decreases in the cellular components of the human immune system.

Tax was transfected into HTLV-I-negative human T-cell lines.

In JM T cells, tax induced LT-293 activity by two- to four-fold, though there was no induction of M1-CAT.

Increased natural killer cell activity correlates with low or negative expression of the HER-2/neu oncogene in patients with breast cancer.

Within this group of patients, NK cell activity was significantly lower (45.6 ± 16.1%) compared with the group with no HER-2/neu overexpression (57.3 ± 11.0%).

NK cell activity did not increase in patients with HER-2/neu overexpression.

Thus, there was a statistically significant correlation of cytolytic effector cell function with HER-2/neu expression of the tumor (P = 0.003), and HER-2/neu overexpression correlated with a negative estrogen receptor status (P = 0.005).

This effect required surface expression of the CD45 PTPase and was not observed in CD45-deficient variants of Jurkat cells.

In the CD45-negative variant, the effect of pervanadate on tyrosine phosphorylation was globally decreased and some phosphorylated substrates were specifically missing.

We thus conclude that PTPases play a crucial role in the negative regulation of signal transduction culminating in T-lymphocyte activation.

Patients were classified as steroid sensitive (SS) if their morning FEV1 increased &gt; 30% after a 1-wk course of oral prednisone 20 mg twice daily and steroid resistant (SR) if they failed to increase &gt; 15%.

The other two SR patients had an abnormally low GR number with normal binding affinity that was not limited to T cells.

Furthermore, GR number failed to normalize after incubation in media alone or IL-2 and IL-4.

Rhabdomyosarcomas do not contain mutations in the DNA binding domains of myogenic transcription factors.

However, their specific function in these processes has not been clearly defined.

Additionally, IFN-gamma activity but not IL-1, IL-2, or IL-4 activity was present in culture supernatants 72 h after R24 stimulation.

Furthermore, R24 treatment resulted in translocation of c-rel, but little or no NF kappa B p50 or p65, from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and an increase of NF kappa B binding complexes containing c-rel and p50.

Additionally, herbimycin A, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, blocked the R24-stimulated increase in proliferation but not cytotoxicity at concentrations consistent with specificity for tyrosine kinases.

Overexpression of full-length SCL protein in the lymphoid cell lines, SupT1 and Raji, did not alter cell phenotype and there was no evidence for autoregulation of SCL transcription.

The GM-CSF gene is not expressed in resting peripheral blood T cells but is rapidly induced at the transcriptional level following activation through the cell surface T-cell receptor.

In addition, we identify a major PB1 nuclear protein-binding complex that is not present in resting peripheral blood T cells but is rapidly induced following T-cell activation.

HTLV-I encodes an essential 40-kDa protein termed Tax that not only transactivates the long terminal repeat of this retrovirus but also induces an array of cellular genes.

In contrast, a mutant of Tax that selectively fails to activate nuclear NF-kappa B expression does not associate with p100.

The BZLF1 gene promoter (Zp) was activated by crosslinking of cell surface immunoglobulin (Ig) with anti-Ig antibody in B cells, even in the absence of other viral genes.

This shift is apparently not caused by a recruitment phenomenon, because in FCS+ culture, the total number of colonies is not significantly modified by RA addition.

Studies on RA time-response or pulse treatment in semisolid or liquid culture show that early RA addition is most effective, thus indicating that early but not late HPC are sensitive to its action.

We measured effects on the HIV-1 LTR in T cell lines that were stimulated with antibodies against CD45 and in those that lacked the expression of CD45 on their surfaces.

First, anti-CD45 antibodies did not affect basal but decreased activated levels of expression from the HIV-1 LTR.

Second, T cells, which lack CD45 and can not signal via the TCR, supported higher levels of viral replication and gene expression.

Egr-1 mRNA expression induced by sIgM- and sIgD-crosslinking was inhibited by H7, erbstatin and genistein, but not by HA1004.

Phorbol myristate acetate induced Egr-1 mRNA expression but forskolin and dibutyryl cyclic AMP did not.

Cyclosporin A (CsA) and FK506 rescued B104 cells from death induced by anti-IgM Ab, but did not affect the expression of Egr-1 and c-fos mRNA, showing that CsA and FK506 affect signal transducers differently from or downstream to these molecules.

By using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, it was shown that G(Anh)MTetra-induced IL-6 mRNA expression depends on the synthesis of new protein, whereas G(Anh)MTetra-induced IL-1 beta mRNA accumulation does not.

The IRF-2 promoter region contains a CpG island, with several GC boxes, a putative NF-kappa B-binding site, and a CAAT box, but no TATA box.

These data suggest that interferon regulatory factor 1 not only triggers the activation of the interferon signal transduction pathway, but also may play a role in limiting the duration of this response by activating the transcription of IRF-2.

G-CSF receptors lack intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, but activation of the receptor results in the rapid induction of tyrosine kinase activity.

The induction of tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel was unique to G-CSF in that granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor which also stimulates neutrophils and induces tyrosine phosphorylation does not result in tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel.

The consequences of p80c-rel tyrosine phosphorylation are not yet known;

Subsequent studies have revealed that ( i ) cytoplasmic RelA is stably associated not only with I kappa B alpha but also with other ankyrin motif-rich proteins including the products of the NF-kappa B2 (p100) and NF-kappa B1 (p105) genes; ( ii ) in contrast to RelA-I kappa B alpha, RelA-p100 cytoplasmic complexes are not dissociated following tumor necrosis factor alpha activation; ( iii ) p100 functions as a potent inhibitor of RelA-mediated transcription in vivo; ( iv ) the interaction of RelA and p100 involves the conserved Rel homology domain of both proteins but not the nuclear localization signal of RelA, which is required for I kappa B alpha binding; ( v ) p100 inhibition of RelA function requires the C-terminal ankyrin motif domain, which mediates cytoplasmic retention of RelA; and ( vi ) as observed with I kappa B alpha, nuclear RelA stimulates p100 mRNA and protein expression.

Because erythrocytes are anucleated, these results are discussed as evidence for biochemical changes by TCDD without requiring the activation of gene products.

Northern blot analyses performed on rat and mouse tissues have detected ubiquitously expressed Pan transcripts, but the abundance, distribution, and form of Pan proteins have not been clearly defined.

IEF-1, a pancreatic beta-cell type-specific complex believed to regulate insulin expression, is demonstrated to consist of at least two distinct species, one of which does not contain Pan molecules.

Interferon alpha selectively affects expression of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen in late stage cells in the monocytic but not the granulocytic lineage.

The effects of phorbol ester on MNDA mRNA appeared to be associated with induced differentiation since inhibiting cell proliferation did not alter the level of MNDA mRNA and cell cycle variation in MNDA mRNA levels were not observed.

The constitutively active type of the CN A subunit, which lacks the auto-inhibitory and calmodulin-binding domains, acts in synergy with PMA to activate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter.

Functional studies in extra-renal, nonepithelial cells such as smooth muscle cells and more recently circulating human lymphocytes have provided increasing evidence that aldosterone produces not only classical genomic effects, but also rapid non-genomic effects on transmembrane electrolyte movements.

Such changes clearly can not be explained by genomic mechanisms, which are responsible for later effects than the membrane-related rapid responses.

In T cells stimulated with purified phytohemagglutinin (PHA-p) and 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) addition of DM to the cultures resulted in a 60 % reduction in IL-2R alpha and a 30 % reduction in IL-2R beta membrane expression compared to T cells cultured in the absence of DM (p &lt; 0.01).

The data indicate that 10(-6) M DM increased T cell p50 NF-kappa B mRNA levels by four-fold compared to the levels obtained in the absence of DM.

In this investigation an enhanced and prolonged IL-2 and IL-2 mRNA response was also detected in both stimulated (T cell mitogens or alloantigens) murine splenocytes and in the stimulated murine T cell line EL-4 in the presence of ciprofloxacin (5-80 micrograms/ml) as compared to control cells without antibiotics.

In addition, EL-4 cells incubated with ciprofloxacin showed an early peak and more activated nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT-1) as compared to control cells without antibiotics.

Cipro did not affect the nuclear transcription factors AP-1 or NFIL-2A.

The sequence between -1.7 and -0.2 kb linked to a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter failed to respond to PRL stimulation, suggesting that the activity of upstream PRL response elements may require an interaction with promoter-proximal elements.

Analysis at the phenotype and genetic level showed that lack of CD5 expression was due neither to segregation of human autosome 11, on which the CD5 gene has been mapped, nor to deletion of the CD5 structural gene.

Furthermore, loss of CD5 surface expression correlated with the absence of specific mRNA.

Breast tissue biomarkers which accurately predict breast cancer development within a 10 year period in high risk women are needed but currently not available.

Low risk women were those without these or other major identifiable risk factors.

The difference in the prevalence of ER overexpression between high and low risk groups was not statistically significant (p = 0.095).

These findings suggest that there is no primary and general impairment of glucocorticoid metabolism in the asthmatics, but the number of GCR in the asthmatics is lower than that in healthy controls.

This atrophy induction does not involve apoptotic mechanisms in thymocytes affected by the bcl-2 proto-oncogene.

TCDD mediates atrophy induction through its specific receptor (the AhR) and not through effects on the estrogen receptor.

We observed no change in membrane structural order with RU 486 up to a concentration of 10(-4) M.

The mechanism by which NF-ATc enters the nucleus is unknown, and although it appears to require calcineurin, NF-ATc has not yet been shown to be an in vivo substrate of calcineurin.

Although NF-ATp copurifies with NF-ATc, there is as yet no understanding of how NF-ATp is functioning in vivo.

The T3- group showed no change in MBC over the study.

Although no proof yet exists of a role for these lesions in DLCL pathogenesis, the feature of the BCL-6 gene product, its specific pattern of expression in B cells, and the clustering of lesions disrupting its regulatory domain strongly suggest that deregulation of BCL-6 expression may contribute to DLCL development.

A more precise definition of the role of BCL-6 in normal and neoplastic B-cell development is the goal of ongoing study of transgenic mice engineered either to express BCL-6 under heterologous promoters or lacking BCL-6 function due to targeted deletions.

In this report, we present data demonstrating that HIV LTR activation is not a general consequence of cellular DNA damage, but rather a process unique to specific genotoxic stimuli, and that it does not necessarily depend on activation of NF-kappa B.

p60 phosphorylation was time and PMA dose dependent, and was induced by cell-permeable diacylglycerol, but not by inactive phorbol esters.

To investigate the molecular mechanism of the inhibitory effect on transcriptional or post-transcriptional regulation of IL-6 gene expression by IL-4 and IL-10, we studied IL-6 production, expression level of IL-6 mRNA, IL-6 promoter activity, transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB and NF-IL-6, and IL-6 mRNA stability in human monocytic cell lines, THP-1 and U937, stimulated by PMA and LPS in the absence or the presence of IL-4 or IL-10.

In chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assays, utilizing the transient transfection of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter plasmid containing the IL-6 gene promoter, IL-4, but not IL-10, suppressed the transcriptional activity of the IL-6 gene promoter stimulated by PMA and LPS.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that IL-4, but not IL-10, inhibited nuclear NF-kappaB activity, and that IL-4 and IL-10 did not affect NF-IL-6 activity.

These results suggest that IL-4 may inhibit the transcription of the IL-6 gene by affecting NF-kappaB binding activity, while IL-10 may inhibit the IL-6 mRNA levels post-transcriptionally, without suppressing promoter activity.

In addition, IL-13 phosphorylated insulin response substrate-1, IL-4R p140, JAK1, and Tyk2, but not JAK3 kinase.

IL-4 also stimulated all three kinases and substrates, but unlike in immune cells, IL-4 did not involve JAK3 activation for its signaling in colon cancer cell lines.

Both IL-13 and IL-4 induced phosphorylation of IL-4 STAT (STAT6) but not STAT1, STAT3, or STAT5.

125I-IL-13 did not bind to colon cancer cell lines, but unlabeled IL-13 competed for the binding of 125I-IL-4.

IL-10 inhibited translocation of NF-kappaB in response to LPS but not the fungal stimuli.

Inactive calcineurin is unable to activate the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), a transcription factor required for expression of the interleukin 2 (IL-2) gene.

however, alterations of NF kappa B did not correlate with changes in IL-2 expression.

In this work, we show that human peripheral blood T cells that are stimulated through the TCR and expanded with IL-2 are unresponsive to IFN-gamma, as determined by a lack of activation of jak kinases and the transcription factor, STAT1(alpha), a signal transducer and activator of transcription.

This nonresponsiveness occurs because of a lack of expression of the beta-chain (accessory factor) of the IFN-gamma receptor, while at the same time maintaining IFN-gamma receptor alpha-chain expression.

When expressed in COS cells, however, NFAT1 is capable of transactivation, but it is not regulated correctly:

its subcellular localization and transcriptional function are not affected by stimulation of the COS cells with ionomycin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.

Thus, signaling in NK3.3 cells is not always identical with that in primary NK cells.

STAT1 alpha activation by IL-12 correlated with increased phosphorylation of serine, but not tyrosine.

The present results show that Jurkat T cells acutely exposed to micromolar concentrations of H2O2 exhibit substantial increases in AP-1 binding activity and the expression of c-jun but not c-fos mRNA.

The preferential induction of c-jun by H2O2 did not represent redox stabilization of mRNA transcripts, and oxidative signals closely resembled PHA/PMA stimulation by effectively transactivating the full length c-jun promoter via the proximal jun1 tumor promoter-responsive element ( TRE ) -like promoter element.

However, PHA/PMA but not oxidative signals induced the coordinate activation of reporter constructs containing the AP-1-TRE, NF-AT, and IL-2 promoter regions along with IL-2 mRNA expression.

Gel shift analysis revealed that oxidative suppression of NF-AT represented inhibition in the early generation of NFAT complexes rather than the binding of preformed NF-AT complexes.

As glucocorticoids regulate interferon-alpha (IFN alpha) production, we hypothesized that IFN alpha, a cytokine produced predominantly by monocytes in AIDS, should be increased in cortisol-resistant AIDS, attributing the lack of cortisol inhibition to IFN alpha production.

Therefore, we examined glucocorticoid receptor characteristics on monocytes by [3H]dexamethasone binding and measured IFN alpha, cortisol, and ACTH in AIDS patients with (AIDS-GR) or without glucocorticoid resistance (AIDS-C) and controls (C).

By contrast, glucocorticoids failed to inhibit IFNalpha production from AIDS-GR monocytes (approximately 20% inhibition).

In conclusion, elevated IFN alpha levels in AIDS-GR may be due to the lack of inhibitory effect of cortisol on IFN alpha production due to cortisol resistance in monocytes.

This activity is further inducible in activated T cells, but not in fibroblasts.

Together these results demonstrate that T cell expression of IL-3 is not specified by the activity of a single tissue-specific element, but instead involves multiple interacting elements that provide both specific positive regulation in T cells and specific negative regulation in fibroblasts.

The molecular background of the defects in the immune reactivity of human neonates has not been fully elucidated.

However, the molecular mechanisms involved in ATRA-dependent growth inhibition and cellular differentiation are not presently understood.

ATRA did not activate nuclear factor kappa B or signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) activation pathways, suggesting that an alternate mechanism is involved in IRF-1 gene activation.

Finally, recombinant GHF-1 interacted directly with c-Jun but not c-Fos proteins.

NFAT1 possesses two transactivation domains whose sequences are not conserved in the other NFAT-family proteins, and a conserved DNA-binding domain that mediates the recruitment of cooperating nuclear transcription factors even when it is expressed in the absence of other regions of the protein.

PU.1 is completely absent from peripheral T cells and most T cell lines based on sensitive RT-PCR assays.

Gel-retardation experiments show that Spi-B can bind to all putative PU.1 binding sites, but do not reveal any preferred Spi-B binding site.

A 4- or 10-bp insertion between muE3 and muB inactivated the mu enhancer in S194 plasma cells but did not affect in vitro binding of Ets-1, PU.1, or the muE3-binding protein TFE3, alone or in pairwise combinations.

Circular permutation and phasing analyses demonstrated that PU.1 binding but not TFE3 or Ets-1 bends mu enhancer DNA toward the major groove.

Ectopic expression of the dominant negative C/EBP protein LIP inhibited HIV-1 mRNA and virus production in activated U1 cells, demonstrating that C/EBP proteins are required for provirus induction.

Here we report that human leukaemia cells carrying the translocation t(17;19) rapidly died by apoptosis when programmed to express a dominant-negative suppressor of the fusion protein E2A-HLF, indicating that the chimaeric oncoprotein probably affects cell survival rather than cell growth.

We questioned whether or not IL-10 and IL-4 affected the expression of transcription factors that are known to be involved in the control of the IL-6 transcription rate, namely activator protein-1 (AP-1), nuclear factor IL-6 (NF-IL6), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB).

Binding activity of NF-IL6 was also strongly inhibited by IL-4 whereas IL-10 showed no effect.

NF-IL6 mRNA levels were not affected by IL-10 or IL-4, suggesting that IL-4 affects binding activity of preexisting NF-IL6.

Neither IL-10 nor IL-4 inhibited LPS-induced NF-kappa B binding activity.

In agreement with this finding, Northern experiments where p65 and p105 mRNA levels were determined, demonstrated that expression of these components of the NF-kappa B transcription factor were not affected by IL-10 or IL-4.

Furthermore, neither IL-10 nor IL-4 showed any effect on I-kappa B mRNA expression as determined by Northern experiments.

cAMP inhibited the induction of expression of IL-2 receptor components, but did not inhibit IL-4 receptor alpha-chain and CD69 expression or the induction of activator protein 1 transcription factors.

Deletion of the glucocorticoid response elements located at ca. bp -850 upstream of Cp did not result in a significant loss in activity.

In contrast, neither E(gre) nor EA/S motifs contributed pronouncedly to Akv MLV transcription in NIH 3T3 cells lacking DNA-binding ALF1 or HEB and E2A proteins.

Moreover, ectopic Id1 repressed E(gre)-directed but not EA/S-directed MLV transcription in lymphoid cell lines.

Expression of dominant negative MAPKK-1 prevents NFAT induction.

Constitutively active MAPKK-1 fully activates ERK-2 and the transcription factor Elk-1, but does not substitute for activated p21ras and synergize with calcium/calcineurin signals to induce NFAT.

Expression of dominant negative N17Rac alsoprevents TCR and p21ras activation of NFAT, but without interfering with the ERK-2 pathway.

Activated Rac-1 could mimic activated p21ras to induce AP-1 but not to induce NFAT.

Moreover, the combination of activated MAPKK-1 and Rac-1 could not substitute for activated p21ras and synergize with calcium signals to induce NFAT.

Protein-tyrosine kinase activation is required for lipopolysaccharide induction of interleukin 1beta and NFkappaB activation, but not NFkappaB nuclear translocation.

Since recent studies have shown that lipopolysaccharide-induced tyrosine kinase activation is not required for NFkappaB nuclear translocation, we sought to determine whether NFkappaB translocated in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity was active in stimulating transcription.

Tyrosine kinases are not required for lipopolysaccharide-mediated nuclear translocation of NFkappaB.

However, in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity, the ability of NFkappaB to stimulate transcription is impaired.

in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity, AP-1-dependent transcription is enhanced.

These results suggest that, while lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of inflammatory mediators requires tyrosine kinase activity, tyrosine kinase activity is not obligatory for lipopolysaccharide signal transduction.

The primary and recurrent tumors in Group A did not show structural alterations in the p16, p15 or CDK4 genes, whereas homozygous codeletion of p16 and p15 was observed in both primary and recurrent tumors in Group B.

The extent to which peptides containing chemically and post-translationally modified amino acid side chains are recognized by primed CTL has not been clearly defined.

Similarly, CTL raised against the parent peptide did not recognize the succinimide derivative of this peptide.

Although NGFI-B/nur77 is essential for TCR-mediated apoptosis in T-cell hybridomas, the reports on nur77 knock-out mice and nur77 dominant negative transgenic mice suggest that there is a functional redundancy among NGFI-B/nur77 family.

Assuming that 9-cis-retinoic acid (9-cis-RA) inhibits TCR-mediated apoptosis, nur77 may cause apoptosis by monomer in the absence of 9-cis-RA and may inhibit apoptosis by heterodimer with RXR in the presence of 9-cis-RA.

Importantly, two previously characterized mutants with point mutations in Tax, M32 (Y196A, K197S) and M41 (H287A, P288S), which were shown to be defective in Tax-activated transcription were unable to interact with TFIIA in this assay.

We now report that vaccination with a CTL epitope derived from the human adenovirus type 5 E1A-region (Ad5E1A234-243), which can serve as a target for tumor-eradicating CTL, enhances rather than inhibits the growth of Ad5E1A-expressing tumors.

Ad5E1A-specific CTL activity could no longer be isolated from mice after injection of Ad5E1A-peptide, indicating that tolerization of Ad5E1A-specific CTL activity causes the enhanced tumor outgrowth.

This yields a fusion transcript, PML/RARalpha, a transcription factor with reported dominant negative functions in the absence of hormone.

Basal total white blood cell and granulocyte counts did not appreciably differ between PML/RARalpha transgenic and control mice.

Granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor and kit ligand cotreatment did not overcome this inhibition.

Anergic CD4+ Th cells do not produce IL-2 when challenged with Ag-pulsed accessory cells because of a transcriptional defect.

However, the reduced expression of these proteins was not the result of a global TCR/CD3-signaling defect because CD3 cross-linking induced an equivalent increase in intracellular-free calcium ions, as well as NFATp dephosphorylation, translocation to the nucleus, and DNA binding in both normal and anergic T cells.

Elevated cAMP did not prevent nuclear translocation of p50/p65 and c-Rel/p65 heterodimers, decrease nuclear translocation of p65, or significantly modify TNFalpha-induced phosphorylation of p65.

However, NFATc.beta neither bound to the kappa3 element (an NFAT-binding site) in the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter nor activated the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter in cotransfection assays.

By using 70Z/3-derived pre-B-cell lines either lacking or expressing human CD14 (the LPS receptor), it was observed that expression of human CD14 imparted responsiveness to LPS but not to OspA or spirochetal lipopeptides (assessed by induction of NF-kappa B and expression of surface immunoglobulin M).

A dramatic increase in the intracellular levels of NF-kappaB subunits c-Rel and NF-kappaB2 p100 and a moderate increase in NF-kappaB2 p52 and RelA(p65) were detected in HIV-1-infected cells, whereas NF-kappaB1 p105/p50 levels were not altered relative to the levels in uninfected cells.

Reverse transcription-PCR analysis showed that all seven EBV-positive tumour tissues constitutively expressed EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA) 1 mRNA, but not EBNA2 mRNA.

by contrast, both Cp and Wp were silent, thus resulting in the lack of EBNA2 mRNA.

however, neither LMP1 nor LMP2B mRNA was detected in any of the tumours tested.

BZLF1 mRNA and the product, an immediate-early gene for EBV replication, was not expressed in any of them, thereby suggesting that the tumour cells carried EBV genomes in a tightly latent form.

An amino-terminal fragment of OCA-B binds the octamer site in the absence of a POU domain with the same sequence specificity.

Southern blot analysis showed rearrangement of BCL6, JH, and TCR beta but not of TCR delta.

In contrast, a cysteine protease inhibitor that also blocks apoptosis had no substantial affect upon cytokine production.

In contrast, ligand activation of c-Kit was unable to induce any of these effects in the same cells.

Activation of the erythropoietin receptor caused specific DNA-binding of Stat 5b, but failed to induce reporter gene transcription.

IL13 is unable to activate JAK1 and JAK3.

The Id family of helix-loop-helix proteins function as negative regulators of DNA binding, basic helix-loop-helix proteins in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation.

Multifactor cis-dominant negative regulation of IL-2 gene expression in anergized T cells.

The molecular mechanism underlying IL-2 transcriptional blockade in anergic T cell clones is not fully understood.

To examine whether an active negative regulatory process occurs, we created a reporter construct containing as an enhancer four copies of the NF-AT site and one copy of the octamer site (4X NF-AT-Oct).

Addition of the -176 to -96 sequence to the 4X NF-AT-Oct construct did not impart the ability to be affected by anergy, but addition of the -236 to -96 sequence did, demonstrating that anergy is an active inhibitory process and that more than the presence of the -150 AP-1 binding site (-152 to -147) is required to mediate the effect.

Because the -180 site is not required for trans-activation, it was possible to confirm by mutation in the normal mouse IL-2 enhancer that this site is absolutely essential for anergy induction.

The simplest model to explain these results is that anergy is mediated by a complex of multiple transcription factors that exert a cis-acting dominant negative regulatory effect on the trans-activation of the IL-2 gene.

Stepwise deletions into the proximal promoter also revealed that the CBF site, but not the YY-1 site, was required for efficient induction of transcriptional activation.

This abnormality was not seen in resting T cells nor T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), or SS accompanied by RA.

Furthermore both childrens ' T cells were unable to produce the cytokines IL-2, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-4 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha).

This multiple cytokine production deficiency could not be restored by IL-2 or co-stimulatory signals provided by antigen-presenting cells (APC).

Moreover, mRNA for IL-2 and IFN-gamma could not be detected.

To determine whether the functional defect of the patients ' T cells was due to the absence or abnormal binding of transcription factors involved in cytokine gene expression, electrophoretic mobility shift assays were used to examine the DNA binding of AP-1, Oct, CREB, SP1, NF-kappa B and the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NF-AT) to their respective response elements in the promoter of the IL-2 gene.

Mature human lymphocytes are unique targets of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha,25(OH)2D3) in that vitamin D receptors (VDR) are not constitutively expressed, and specific cellular activation signals are required for both the up-regulation of VDR and establishment of reactivity to the lipophilic ligand.

Treatment of B lymphocytes with the cytokine IL-4 (IL-4), in the absence of prior activation, induces a weak up-regulation of VDR expression but fails to generate vitamin D-responsive element ( VDRE ) -reactive nuclear protein complexes or to initiate the genomic transcription of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 24-hydroxylase.

However, this apparent lack of response to the secosterol can be overcome by stimulation of B lymphocytes with a combination of these cellular activation signals, which are sufficient to lead to G1 cell cycle progression.

In A20 B cells, the TNF-alpha gene is not regulated by NFATp bound to the kappa 3 element.

Changes of any cysteine residue of the hRAR alpha-LBD had no significant influence on the binding of all-trans RA or 9-cis RA.

For all other arginine mutations, no differences in affinity were detectable.

The two mutations R217A and R294A caused an increased binding efficiency for antagonists but no change in agonist binding.

The phosphorylation of CREB that results in activation is mediated by protein kinase C rather than by protein kinase A.

Importantly, culture of MM cells with RB antisense, but not RB sense, oligonucleotide (ODN) triggered IL-6 secretion and proliferation in MM cells;

Although CD40 ligand (CD40L) triggers a shift from dephosphorylated to phosphorylated pRB and proliferation of B cells, the addition of exogenous IL-6 to CD40L-treated B cells does not alter either pRB or proliferation, as observed in MM cells.

The activation of JNK by classical T cell stimuli was transient, whereas that mediated by PDTC and butylated hydroxyanisole (but not N-acetylcysteine) was sustained.

In addition, JNK activation by PMA plus ionophore was sensitive to inhibitors of signaling pathways involving Ca2+, protein kinase C, and tyrosine phosphorylation, which failed to inhibit the activation mediated by PDTC.

Transfection of trans-dominant negative expression vectors of ras and raf, together with AP-1-dependent reporter constructs, as well as Western blot analysis using anti-ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) antibodies, indicated that the Ras/Raf/ERK pathway did not appear to mediate the effect of the antioxidant.

E3 transcripts were RA-inducible in HL60 cells, but not in an RA-resistant subclone, HL60R, that harbors a mutated RAR alpha gene.

E3 transcripts are present in the myeloid, B-lymphoid, and erythroid lineages, absent in nonhematopoietic cells, and encode a highly hydrophobic, potentially phosphorylated polypeptide of unknown function with significant homology to a putative protein expressed in myeloid cells.

To further reduce the size of the common deleted region we have searched for small deletions or mitotic recombination events, neither of which would be detected by conventional cytogenetics.

In each case, cytogenetic analysis had either failed or had shown no abnormalities of chromosome 20.

Loss of heterozygosity in PB granulocytes would be masked by the presence of significant numbers of normal granulocytes not derived from the malignant clone.

These results show that , in the vast majority of patients presented here, the failure to detect loss of heterozygosity can not be attributed to the presence of normal polyclonal granulocytes.

Our results therefore show that allele loss on chromosome 20q in polycythemia vera does not commonly involve mitotic recombination or chromosome loss and that microsatellite instability is a rare event in this disorder.

However, more recent studies in human T cell lines have suggested that the N-terminal domain is not necessary for steroid-regulated apoptosis and that GR-mediated transrepression may be the more critical mechanism.

To better understand the contribution of the GR N-terminal transactivation domain in mediating murine thymocyte apoptosis, we stably transfected GR, GR variants, and the androgen receptor (AR) into receptor-negative S49 murine thymoma cells.

Taken together, these results support our conclusion that transcriptional transactivation is a necessary signaling component of S49 cell apoptosis, although an additional role for GR-mediated transrepression cannot be excluded.

Suppression of c-jun by antisense oligonucleotides inhibits cell adhesion but not respiratory burst during phorbol ester-induced differentiation of U937 human monoblastic cells.

the C-JUN AS oligonucleotides inhibited cell adhesion, whereas they did not affect another marker of differentiation, respiratory burst (measured by nitro blue tetrazolium reduction assay).

These results suggest a critical role of c-jun in both cell proliferation and PMA-induced cell adhesion but not in PMA-induced respiratory burst in U937 cells.

Here, we report that differentiated B cells contain a novel substoichiometric TAF of 105 kDa not found associated with TFIID isolated from other cell types.

The proliferative responses of purified CD4+ or CD8+ T cells are suppressed more strongly by TPCK when anti-CD28 rather than the phorbol ester PMA is used as the mitogenic coactivator.

Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we find that TPCK virtually abolishes (to less than 1%) the levels of NF(kappa)B (but not Oct-1) found in nuclear and whole cell extracts of activated T cells.

NAC not only blocks the effect of TPCK but enhances mitogenesis and cytokine production (&gt; 2.5-fold in some cases) upon activation of unsuppressed T cells.

IL-12-induced activation of NK and T cells occurs in the absence of immediate-early activation gene expression.

Using reverse-transcription PCR differential display, we isolated an mRNA species expressed in IL-2- but not IL-12-stimulated NK cells.

This was identified as the mRNA encoding the transcription factor egr-1, which is expressed with fast kinetics in T and NK cells upon IL-2, but not IL-12, stimulation.

Analysis of the accumulation of mRNA-encoding members of the AP-1 transcription factor family demonstrated that c-fos and junB are also expressed upon stimulation of NK and T cells with IL-2, but not IL-12, whereas expression of c-jun and junD is not modified by either cytokine.

Our data provide the first demonstration that IL-12-mediated activation of T and NK cells does not involve expression of members of the immediate-early activation genes family (egr-1, c-fos, and junB), AP-1 transcriptional activity, or bcl-2 expression.

Furthermore, in the absence of exogenous HGFs, FL monocytic progenitors (colony-forming unit monocyte [CFU-M]) generate large colonies exclusively composed of monocytes-macrophages;

these colonies are absent in FCS- clonogenic culture.

Studies on unicellular and paired daughter cell culture unequivocally indicate that the shift is mediated by modulation of the HPC differentiation program to the granulopoietic pathway (rather than RA-induced down-modulation of multipotent/erythroid/monocytic HPC growth coupled with recruitment of granulocytic HPCs).

It is crucial that these results mirror recent observations indicating that murine adult HPCs transduced with dominant negative ATRA receptor (RAR) gene are immortalized and show a selective blockade of granulocytic differentiation.

In contrast, neither the RA-stimulated, RARE-mediated transcription nor the induced RAR-beta expression was suppressed by VitD3, suggesting that VitD3 selectively inhibited the retinoid-induced differentiation program but not the RARE-mediated signal.

Pb-induced activation of NF-kappa B is blocked by antibodies for p65 and p50 subunits but not cRel, indicating that the p65:p50 heterodimer (NF-kappa B) is involved.

Pb did not activate NF-kappa B in 4 different T cell lines, suggesting that lymphoid cell lines may not be reliable surrogates for the study of transcriptional activation in human T cells.

These results suggest that p2l(ras) is an essential mediator in generating not only positive but also negative modulatory mechanisms controlling the competence of T cells in response to inductive stimulations.

The catalytic domain of pp56(lck), but not its regulatory domain, is sufficient for inducing IL-2 production.

Two pp56(lck) mutants lacking either the entire catalytic domain or the entire NH2 regulatory domain were generated, and their abilities to trigger transactivation of the TCR-regulated nuclear factor of activated T cells (NF-AT) region of the IL-2 promoter were compared.

Only the catalytic, but not the NH2 regulatory, domain of pp56(lck) was able to induce NF-AT region transactivation on its own and to cooperate with other intracellular signals to trigger this response.

Induction of fra-1 following engagement of CD40 did not require protein synthesis, suggesting that the PKC-dependent linkage between CD40 and fra-1 is direct.

Overexpression of Bcl-2 in tumor cells blocks apoptosis induced by many stimuli, but inhibition of Fas-mediated killing has not been consistently observed.

Transient overexpression of Bcl-2 in mouse and human T cell blasts did not block Fas-mediated apoptosis, whereas etoposide- and glucocorticoid-induced cytotoxicity was potently inhibited.

Expression of Bcl-xL and adenovirus E1B 19K did not interfere with anti-Fas killing.

The last 13 amino acids containing a PXQXT/S sequence are highly conserved in human and simian EBV LMP1 but do not bind TRAF3, suggesting a distinct role for this conserved region of LMP1.

Here we report that sustained high concentrations of Ca2+, but not transient pulses, are required to maintain NF-AT transcription factors in the nucleus, where they participate in Ca2+-dependent induction of genes required for lymphocyte activation and proliferation.

Furthermore, overexpression and constitutive nuclear localization of NF-AT, but not Jun, Fos, NF-kappaB, Oct or Ets family members, renders the interleukin-2 enhancer in Jurkat T lymphocytes resistant to FK506 and cyclosporin A.

However, IFN(alpha) does not have any effects on the retinoid-dependent regulation of the myeloid surface markers CD11b and CD33.

The IFN-dependent increase in RAR(alpha) levels and the enhancing effect of the cytokine on retinoid-dependent granulocytic markers expression may be a characteristic of PML-RAR positive cells, since the phenomena are not observed in HL-60 promyelocytes.

Interferons as well as retinoids inhibit the growth of NB4 cells, although the 2 classes of compounds do not significantly interact in terms of anti-proliferative activity.

We demonstrate that although the individual components of this element do not respond to IL-2, together they form a composite element capable of conferring IL-2 responsiveness to a heterologous promoter.

Thus, IL-2-induced IL-2R alpha promoter activity requires a complex upstream element, which appears to contain binding sites for both positive and negative regulatory factors.

The nature of CD40-dependent signals in proliferating fresh human Epstein-Barr virus-negative B lymphocytes is currently unknown.

The use of the protein tyrosine kinase ( PTK )-specific inhibitor herbimycin A dramatically decreased cellular proliferation without altering the activity of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 long terminal repeat (HIV-1 LTR), a promoter largely dependent on the binding of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B).

In contrast, the cAMP-dependent protein kinase specific inhibitor H-89 totally inhibited HIV-1 LTR activity at a concentration as low as 100 nM without affecting cellular proliferation.

While PKC depletion did not alter the NF-kappa B level, treatment of B lymphocytes with H-89 or herbimycin A provoked a decrease in the NF-kappa B level.

Active suppression of the class II transactivator-encoding AIR-1 locus is responsible for the lack of major histocompatibility complex class II gene expression observed during differentiation from B cells to plasma cells.

Class II molecules are not expressed in plasma cells because of an active suppression resulting in the abrogation of class II gene transcription.

We show here that the plasma cell-specific repressor function, designated SIR (suppressor of immune response genes), does not act directly on the transcription of class II genes, but instead on the transcription of the AIR-1 gene, whose product, the class II transactivator (CIITA), is fundamental for the regulation of the constitutive and inducible expression of MHC class II genes.

This was unambiguously demonstrated by the fact that plasmacytoma x B cell hybrids carrying an AIR-1 locus derived from CIITA-expressing cells do not express CIITA-specific transcripts.

Interestingly, in CIITA-transfected cell hybrids, cell surface expression of the human HLA-DQ heterodimer was not observed.

This result was not attributable to lack of HLA-DQ alpha or -DQ beta transcription, because both transcripts were present in the CIITA-transfected hybrids, although at reduced levels.

Lobular or mucinous samples showed few or no alterations, whereas most ductal samples had high chromosome 1 polysomy with under-representation of 1p36.

Silencing of human fetal globin expression is impaired in the absence of the adult beta-globin gene activator protein EKLF.

We find that in the absence of EKLF, while human beta-globin expression is dramatically reduced, gamma-globin transcripts are elevated approximately 5-fold.

Our findings are compatible with a competitive model of switching in which EKLF mediates an adult stage-specific interaction between the beta-globin gene promoter and the locus control region that excludes the gamma-globin gene.

it had no effect on IL-10 secretion.

Thus, stress may cause a selective suppression of TH1 functions and a shift toward a TH2 cytokine pattern rather than generalized TH suppression.

RT-PCR demonstrated that NL of both subtypes expressed EBNAI of the QUK splice pattern, the latent membrane proteins, LMP1 and 2 and the BamHI A rightward transcripts in the absence of EBNA2 mRNAs, compatible with the latency type II pattern.

Although 2 early lytic transcripts, BZLF1 and BHRF1, were also detected in 13 and 10 cases, respectively, the lack of ZEBRA staining in any case indicates that these lytic transcripts are most likely expressed by rare cells in the biopsies entering lytic cycle.

The majority of these TCC exhibited a strongly polarized Th2 cytokine profile, and the production of IFN-gamma could not be induced by exogenous IL-12.

Only those TCC with low IFN-gamma levels in the absence of IL-12 responded to IL-12 by additional enhancement of IFN-gamma production.

The IL-12 nonresponsiveness of the Th2 clones was further evident by the total lack of IL-12-induced phosphorylation of STAT4 (signal transducer and activator of transcription-4), a transcription factor that is typically involved in IL-12 signaling.

Consequently, IL-12 also failed to induce the DNA-binding activity of STAT4-containing complexes in the nuclei of these Th2 clones.

Our results indicate that human allergen-specific Th cells with strongly polarized Th2 cytokine profiles do not respond to IL-12 and , therefore , can not be induced to produce IFN-gamma.

Using a structure-function mutagenesis approach, two tyrosine residues (Tyr427 and Tyr477) in the intracellular domain of the murine IL-10 receptor were found to be redundantly required for receptor function and for activation of Stat3 but not for Stat1 or Stat5.

Twelve amino acid peptides encompassing either of these two tyrosine residues in phosphorylated form coprecipitated Stat3 but not Stat1 and blocked IL-10-induced Stat3 phosphorylation in a cell-free system.

In contrast, tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides containing Tyr374 or Tyr396 did not interact with Stat3 or block Stat3 activation.

These data demonstrate that Stat3 but not Stat1 or Stat5 is directly recruited to the ligand-activated IL-10 receptor by binding to specific but redundant receptor intracellular domain sequences containing phosphotyrosine.

High levels of Sp140 mRNA were detected in human spleen and peripheral blood leukocytes, but not other human tissues.

however, it has not been established whether the expression has a causal role in oncogenesis.

The magnitude and kinetics of intracellular ROI were similar, suggesting that there were no differences in ROI-forming mechanisms or antioxidative capacities.

Moreover, ZK161422, but not ZK157202, showed preference for gene activation from a promoter carrying a VD response element with a palindromic arrangement of two hexameric receptor binding sites spaced by 9 nucleotides (IP9) rather than for activation from a response element formed by a direct repeat spaced by 3 nucleotides (DR3).

We report here that PML is expressed at low levels or not expressed in normal circulating human monocytes, lymphocytes, and polymorphonucleate cells, but is markedly induced by interferon; that PML and PML/RAR alpha expression is augmented by interferon in the NB4 APL cell line, which carries the t(15;17), and in APL blasts from patients; that interferon inhibits growth and survival of NB4 APL cells in cooperation with RA; that interferons alone have minimal maturation effect on NB4 cells; and , finally, that interferon gamma, but not alpha or beta, induces maturation and growth suppression of NB4 cells with de novo retinoid resistance, and partially restores RA response.

However, in vivo, not only CSF but also many other cytokines are produced under various conditions.

However, the monocyte-derived DC were not terminally differentiated cells;

In contrast to IL-4, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) had no demonstrable effect on the differentiation of monocytes.

Taken together, these results provide a new aspect to our knowledge of monocyte differentiation and provide evidence that human monocytes are flexible in their differentiation potential and are precursors not only of macrophages but also of CD1+relB+DC and TRAP-positive MGC.

Implication of viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis has been suspected on the basis of several indirect observations, but thus far, a direct link between EBV and rheumatoid arthritis has not been provided.

Recently, it has been shown that RelB knockout mice have no dendritic cells (DC).

In germinal centers GC, p50, p52, and RelB were found in the nuclei of FDC only and were not detected in the nuclei of CD68+ cells.

Cells with nuclear p50 were negative for the CD38, CD20 and CD2 markers.

These results show that , physiologically, high levels of nuclear of p50, p52 and RelB are restricted to accessory cells of the immune system, which include FDC in GC, and DC and macrophages in the T cell zone, that specialized scavenger macrophages from GC do not have detectable levels of p52 and RelB, whereas macrophages from the T cell area, known to present the antigen to T cells, do have both nuclear p52 and RelB, and that in the T cell zone, p52 and RelB are located in nuclei of both CD1a+, CD68+ or both, cells APC, whereas p50 is restricted to CD1a- and CD68- APC.

The protein from E. coli specifically converted dUTP to dUMP and did not react with other dNTPs or NTPs.

While the sera of EBV-negative individuals (0/3) or healthy carriers (0/33) did not contain detectable levels of antibodies, patients with mononucleosis (5/18), chronic EBV infection (2/7), EBV reactivation (7/20) and human immunodeficiency virus infection (5/24) showed elevated antibody titres against the enzyme.

Using electrophoretic mobility shift assay, we demonstrated that a short treatment of human T lymphocytes with PGE2 induces specific binding activity to CRE and AP-2, but not AP-1, DNA elements.

The Oct-2 transcription factor is a member of the POU (Pit-Oct-Unc) family of transcription factors and is expressed only in B lymphocytes and in neuronal cells but not in other cell types.

Visceral TSC2 expression was comparable in autopsy tissues from patients with and without TSC;

In the erythroleukemia cell line K562, due to the absence of Spi-B, only PU.1 bound to the Btk promoter.

However, mutation of the PU box had no effect in the T-cell line Jurkat, where none of the Spi-1 family members is expressed.

In fetal liver of PU.1-/- mice, which lack lymphoid and myeloid cells, expression of Btk was reduced two- to threefold but not abolished.

However, none of these proximal regions account for the induction of IL-2R alpha transcription by IL-2.

The negative effects of point mutations in the LMP1(1-231) core TRAF binding motif on TRAF binding and NF-kappaB activation genetically link the TRAFs to LMP1(1-231)-mediated NF-kappaB activation.

NF-kappaB activation by LMP1(1-231) is likely to be mediated by TRAF1/TRAF2 heteroaggregates since TRAF1 is unique among the TRAFs in coactivating NF-kappaB with LMP1(1-231), a TRAF2 dominant-negative mutant can block LMP1(1-231)-mediated NF-kappaB activation as well as TRAF1 coactivation, and 30 % of TRAF2 is associated with TRAF1 in EBV-transformed B cells.

TRAF3 is a negative modulator of LMP1(1-231)-mediated NF-kappaB activation.

Surprisingly, TRAF1, -2, or -3 does not interact with the terminal LMP1 CT aa 333 to 386 which can independently mediate NF-kappaB activation.

CD40, but not lipopolysaccharide and anti-IgM stimulation of primary B lymphocytes, leads to a persistent nuclear accumulation of RelB.

LPS stimulation did not give rise to a persistent nuclear accumulation of RelB and c-Rel, whereas nuclear c-Rel, but not RelB, accumulated after B cell receptor stimulation.

CD40 induced not only nuclear translocation but also de novo synthesis of RelB RNA and protein.

S107 plasmacytoma cells, which express CD40 but are defective for the nuclear appearance of p50/p65-NF-kappaB, do not express RelB after CD40 stimulation.

Since LPS and anti-IgM were unable to activate RelB, CD40 appears to trigger a special program of gene expression involved in the proliferation and/or differentiation of B lymphocytes.

Consequently, the present study was addressed to understand this phenomenon and revealed the existence of a unique 47 kDa protein factor having affinity for this SRE sequence in lymphocytes from normal subjects as well as its absence in lymphocytes from untreated CML patients.

Ara-C activated SMase with 10 minutes in both Jurkat and EL4 cells, while phorbol ester (PMA) had no effect.

PMA, but not Ara-C or ceramides, activated ERK MAPKS, in Jurkat and EL4.

Thus, ceramide is not a positive signal for ERK activation in T-cell lines.

In this paper we have investigated the role of Egr-1 in B cell growth regulation by examining the gene expression in a panel of B cell lines, including both EBV genome negative and EBV carrying cell lines.

The CpG dinucleotide in this element is selectively methylated in Th2 T cells and other cells that do not express IFN-gamma, and methylation markedly reduces transcription factor binding.

Contrary to the idea that protein kinase C is involved in TCR-mediated activation of NF-kappaB, high doses of staurosporine did not interfere with activation of NF-kappaB by PHA, while the same dose of staurosporine completely blocked activation by PMA.

PHA-induced kappaB-dependent reporter activity was , however, effectively blocked by a dominant negative form of Raf-1, suggesting a critical role for a Raf kinase.

To help elucidate further the mechanism by which ZAP-70 regulates these initial events, we used a dominant-negative mutant approach.

This result demonstrates that Tyr-492 and Tyr-493 are not responsible for the Src homology domain 2-mediated association of p56(lck) with ZAP-70.

Lymphocytes from CML patients lack a 47 kDa factor having affinity for a genomic sterol regulatory sequence.

Since the human genomic sterol regulatory element (SRE) has been shown to regulate various key genes involved in this phenomenon, the present study revealed the existence of a unique 47 kDa protein factor having affinity for this SRE sequence in lymphocytes from normal subjects, as well as its absence in lymphocytes from untreated CML patients.

The SCMV SNE sites contain potential overlapping core recognition binding motifs for SRF, Rel/NFkappaB, ETS, and YY1 class transcription factors but fail to respond to either serum or tumor necrosis factor alpha.

Unlike classical NFkappaB sites, neither the SNE nor the SEE motif responded to phosphatase inhibition by okadaic acid.

A 40-fold stimulation of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity mediated by four tandem repeats of the SNE could be induced within 2 h ( and up to 250-fold within 6 h) after addition of TPA in DNA-transfected U-937 cells, indicating that the stimulation appeared likely to be a true protein kinase C-mediated signal transduction event rather than a differentiation response.

We find that , although the variant octamer motif binds Oct-1 and Oct-2 in vitro with 5-fold lower affinity than the consensus octamer motif, mutation of the variant octamer motif to either a consensus octamer or non-octamer motif has no effect on transcriptional activation from the germline promoter.

The promoter region lacked a TATA box but contained potential binding sites for the transcriptional factors including two Sp1, CRE, Myb and NFkB located at positions -153, -178, -286, -875, and -1011, respectively.

Inhibition of RANTES expression did not appear to be secondary to IL-2 inhibition and required binding to the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor.

Although inhibition of IL-4-driven germline C epsilon transcription by NAC was not sufficient, the agent remarkably diminished anti-CD40 mAb-mediated up-regulation of germline C epsilon transcription.

However, NAC did not significantly affect the spontaneous production of IgE by atopic B cells.

The purpose of this review is to show how the accumulation of various biochemical lesions with advancing age leads to the failure of a critical cell function, namely the activation-induced lymphocyte proliferation.

They fail to induce mRNA of TNF-alpha after 3 h of culture.

The kinetics of expression suggest that the high initial levels are caused by the isolation procedure, and do not reflect constitutive expression.

Although JAK3 is required for proper lymphoid development, the precise roles of this kinase in IL-2 and IL-4 signaling in lymphocytes have not been defined.

Here, we have studied IL-2 and IL-4 signaling in B cell lines lacking JAK3.

Although IL-2-induced phosphorylation of IL-2R beta, JAK1, and STAT5 all required the presence of JAK3, IL-4-mediated phosphorylation of JAK1, STAT6, and insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 did not.

These data indicate that IL-4 signaling occurs in the absence of of JAK3, but is comparatively inefficient.

Transfection of an expression vector containing ORF2 but not full length cDNA was able to transform NIH3T3 cells and induce tumors in nude mice.

Within the PBL, Bcd gene expression was restricted to CD19+ B-cells and absent from CD14+ monocytes and T-cells.

Bcd transcripts were detected in all normal PBL samples tested but not in several malignant human B-cell lines and not in 50 % of B-cells from B-CLL patients.

Its immunosuppressive property is distinct from cyclosporin because only tepoxalin, but not cyclosporin, suppresses NF-kappa B activation.

These results indicate that the function of adrenal cortex may be improved by the compensation mechanism of the patients, but the lower GCR number was the result of lacking of oxygen in the patients.

However, the nature of the subunit involved in this mechanism has not been defined.

High doses of sodium salicylate suppressed NF-kappa B p65 mRNA accumulation, resulting in suppression of total NF-kappa B, p50 on tissue oligonucleotide had no effects on lipopolysaccharide-induced NF-kappa B activation.

The in vitro immunization of peripheral blood lymphocytes from four patients in remission (S.R., F.R., M.M., P. G.) with BCR1/25, a 25-mer pml/RAR-alpha, did not elicit either a polyclonal or a clonal immune response specific to the peptide.

APL blasts, available only from patients F.R. and P.G., were not lysed by C3/5 and were unable to present peptide BCR1/25.

Incubation of APL cells with IFN-gamma failed to induce HLA class II molecules and recognition by the C3/5 clone.

Since APL cells do not express HLA class II molecules, we tested in two donors (D.E. and C.H.R.) and in patients S.R.and P.G.whether the use of 9-mer peptides (BCR1/9) would generate a CD8/HLA class I-restricted response.

5-LOX and 5-LOX activating protein (FLAP) are coexpressed in lymphoid cells but not in monocytic or epithelial cells.

IL-1beta stimulation of epithelial cells did not generate any ROIs and NF-kappaB induction was not influenced by 5-LOX inhibitors.

This pathway involves the Rac1 and Cdc42 GTPases, two enzymes which are not required for NF-kappaB activation by IL-1beta in epithelial cells.

The first intron acted as a strong transcriptional activator in a position-dependent manner and with no cell-type specificity.

Patients with diabetic nephropathy showed higher NF-kappaB binding activity in Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays and stronger immunohistological staining for activated NF-kappaBp65 than patients without renal complications.

When we analyzed the nature of STAT proteins capable of binding to IL-2Ralpha, pim-1, and IRF-1 GAS elements after cytokine stimulation, we observed IFN-alpha-induced binding of STAT1, STAT3, and STAT4, but not STAT5 to all of these elements.

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha-induced HIV-1 replication in OM10.1 or Ach2 cells was significantly inhibited by non-cytotoxic doses of AuTG (&gt;10 microM in OM10.1 cells and &gt;25 F.M in Ach2 cells), while 25 microM of the counter-anion thioglucose (TG) or gold compound containing divalent gold ion, HAuCl3, had no effect.

The molecular basis for increased IL-4 gene expression in atopy is not fully understood.

At the most proximal P0 site, NFAT-containing complexes devoid of NFAT2 were readily inducible in the Th1 clones, but hardly or  not in the Th2 clones.

In contrast, both in Th1 and Th2 clones NFAT-containing complexes were strongly inducible at the P1 site, consisting of NFAT2 and a P0-compatible NFAT activity, without apparent differences between Th1 and Th2 clones.

Like in Th2 clones, suppressed NFAT-P0 complex formation was observed also at the polyclonal level in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of three of five severe atopic dermatitis patients with strongly elevated serum IgE levels, but not in control PBMC.

The inhibitory effects of NAC were not due to nonspecific toxicity as neither the viability of DC nor their mannose receptor-mediated endocytosis were modified by NAC.

Finally, we found that the addition of NAC to MLR between naive T cells and allogeneic DC resulted in a profound inhibition of alloreactive responses, which could be attributed to a defect of DC as APC-independent T cell responses were not inhibited by NAC.

Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated immune responses, including activation of monocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells, play an important role in the pathogenesis of Gram-negative bacteria-induced sepsis syndrome.

In transient cotransfection experiments, dominant negative mutants of the IL-1 signaling pathway, including MyD88, IRAK, IRAK2, and TRAF6 inhibited both IL-1- and LPS-induced NF-kappaB-luciferase activity.

LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation was not inhibited by a dominant negative mutant of TRAF2 that is involved in TNF signaling.

LPS-induced activation of NF-kappaB-responsive reporter gene was not inhibited by IL-1 receptor antagonist.

However, the mechanism by which IFNs mediate this inhibition has not been defined.

The ability of type I and type II IFNs to inhibit IL-4/IL-13-induced STAT6 activity is dose- and time-dependent, and is not unique to monocytes because IFNs induce the same effects in fibroblasts.

Inhibition of STAT6 activity is not evident unless cells are preincubated with IFN for at least 1 h before IL-4 stimulation.

The results of supershift analysis using specific antibodies against transcription factors suggested that both binding complexes contained the NF-kappaB components p50 and p65, and did not contain other NF-kappaB proteins (p52, c-Rel, Rel B), AP-1 proteins (c-Fos, C-Jun), CREB or C/EBPbeta (NF-IL6).

Furthermore, CoCl2 also caused time-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase isoform ERK2 without significantly affecting ERK1, indicating ERK2 is the preferred substrate for upstream kinase of the MAPK pathway.

Treatment of human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) monolayers for 6 hours with 0.2 mmol/L diamide and 1 mmol/L buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) decreased GSH levels and increased the ratio of GSSG to GSH without cell toxicity.

Interestingly, phase 1 adhesion was inversely correlated with GSH levels but not with the GSSG/GSH ratio, whereas phase 2 neutrophil adhesion was positively correlated with GSSG/GSH ratio but not with GSH levels.

Examination of activation-induced phosphorylation and ubiquitination of IkappaBalpha did not demonstrate any significant age-related alterations.

These results suggest that a decline in proteasome activity results in a failure to fully degrade IkappaBalpha in the elderly.

This failure to degrade IkappaBalpha may underlie both the observed decrease in NFkappaB induction and the IL-2 receptor expression in TNF-treated T cells during aging.

In CAT reporter constructions no appreciable level of CAT activity was supported by the beta globin promoter, and only low level activity by the delta promoter.

Coupling of the upstream beta globin sequence from approximately -500 to -250 bp to the truncated delta promoter fragment led to complete extinction of transcription activity, consistent with a negative regulatory effect of the beta globin gene upstream element(s).

The signal cascade transducing this effect is not yet clear.

In contrast, gp41 failed to stimulate NF-kappaB binding activity in as much as no NF-kappaB bound to the main NF-kappaB-binding site 2 of the IL-10 promoter after addition of gp41.

Specific inhibitors of p70(S6)-kinase (rapamycin), and Gi protein (pertussis toxin), prevented induction of IL-10 production by gp41 in monocytes, while inhibitors of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) (wortmannin) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway (PD 98059) did not.

Thus HIV-1 gp41-induced IL-10 up-regulation in monocytes may not involve NF-kappaB, MAPK, or PI 3-kinase activation, but rather may operate through activation of adenylate cyclase and pertussis-toxin-sensitive Gi/Go protein to effect p70(S6)-kinase activation.

However, the sensitivity of cells to these agents is not merely governed by the expression of their receptors and the availability of ligand to bind them.

However, the HTLV-I genes including Tax are not expressed significantly in primary leukemic cells from ATL patients.

One T-cell line derived from ATL leukemic cells, TL-Om1, displayed constitutive NF-kappaB activity, as well as enhanced degradation of IkappaBalpha, despite the lack of detectable Tax expression.

The CD34+ myelomonocytic cell line KG1 differentiates into dendritic-like cells in response to granulocyte-macrophage CSF plus TNF-alpha, or PMA (with or without the calcium ionophore ionomycin, or TNF-alpha), with different stimuli mediating different aspects of the process.

IL-2-mediated cell cycle progression and inhibition of apoptosis does not require NF-kappa B or activating protein-1 activation in primary human T cells.

IL-2 is required not only for cell cycle progression but also to protect Ag-activated T cells from programmed cell death.

The current study clearly demonstrates that IL-2 does not induce I kappa B alpha degradation or NF-kappa B activation in primary human T cells that respond to IL-2 by entering the cell cycle and avoiding apoptosis.

Similarly, IL-2 neither activates JNK nor increases AP-1 binding activity to a consensus o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) response element.

These data show that neither NF-kappa B nor AP-1 activation is required for IL-2-mediated survival or cell cycle progression in activated primary human T cells.

Fetal thymocytes infected with adenovirus containing mut-I kappa B were found to develop normally until the CD44-CD25+, CD4-CD8- double-negative stage, while production of more mature double-positive and single-positive populations was strongly decreased.

In contrast, treatment of HL-60 cells with retinoic acid or DMSO, which results in a granulocytic differentiation of these cells, decreases 4E-BP1 amount without affecting its phosphorylation and strongly increases 4E-BP2 amount.

CD40 expression was confirmed in 7 human MM cell lines established from immunogenic primary tumors or metastases, whereas 11 cell lines established from advanced stages were CD40 negative.

CD40 expression could be enhanced in CD40-positive MM by stimulation with IFN-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha but not by interleukin (IL)-1beta or CD40 triggering.

When two 4-trifluoromethyl salicylate derivatives [2-acetoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-benzoic acid (triflusal) and its deacetylated metabolite 2-hydroxy-4-trifluoromethylbenzoic acid (HTB)] were compared with aspirin and sodium salicylate as cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, we observed that in bacterial lipopolysaccharide-activated human blood, triflusal, aspirin, and HTB, but not sodium salicylate, inhibited COX-2-mediated prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production (IC50 = 0.16, 0.18, 0.39, and &gt;10 mM, respectively).

To test this apparent discrepancy, we realized that HTB and triflusal (but neither aspirin nor salicylate) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of COX-2 protein expression in peripheral human mononuclear cells.

Unexpectedly, the presence of nuclear I(kappa)B(alpha) did not inhibit NF-kappaB binding to DNA and this phenomenon was not due to the presence of IkappaBbeta at the nuclear level.

Immunoprecipitation experiments failed to demonstrate an association between nuclear I(kappa)B(alpha) and NF-kappaB proteins.

Our results demonstrate that in resting and PMA-activated human PBL, I(kappa)B(alpha) is present in the nucleus in an apparently inactive form unable to disrupt NF-kappaB binding from DNA.

The STP-C488 P10--&gt;R mutant was also defective in Rat-1 fibroblast transformation, and fibroblast cell transformation was blocked by a TRAF2 dominant-negative mutant.

Furthermore, it demonstrates that aging does not influence the sensitivity of this phosphatase.

Finally, we demonstrate that a failure to degrade IkappaB-alpha in cytosols of TNF-treated T cells pretreated with PAO is due to its interference with the phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha and not due to its inhibitory effect on proteasomal degradation.

These data collectively suggest that PAO interferes with the phosphorylation and the regulated degradation of IkappaB-alpha, induced by TNF, without affecting the chymotryptic activity of the proteasome, independent of age.

Our previous studies pertaining to macrophage response to LPS identified a novel DNA-binding domain located from -550 to -487 in the human TNF-alpha promoter that contains transcriptional activity, but lacks any known NF-kappaB-binding sites.

Interaction between immunoglobulin-like transcript-2/leukocyte Ig-like receptor 1 on NKL cells and HLA-B27 on target cells leads to an impairment of NKL natural cytotoxicity, which correlates with an absence of JunB, FosB, and c-Fos transcription, as well as an absence of their DNA-binding activity.

By using PD98059, we demonstrated that the Raf1/MEK1/ERK1/2 pathway did not affect the DNA binding of NF-kappa B but, rather, acted at the level of transcriptional activity of NF-kappa B.

In contrast, another inducible gene expression of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (a CC chemokine) and the activation of the transcriptional factor (FcRFgamma) bound to the gamma response region were similarly or less abundantly induced by IFNgamma treatment in PMA- or RA-differentiated U937 cells, indicating that increased IP-10 mRNA induction was not due to the augmented ability of the cells to respond to the presence of IFNgamma.

STAT1, which is activated in response to many lymphocyte-activating cytokines including the interferons, is essential for cell-mediated immunity, as the absence of this protein is associated with prominent defects in the ability to control viral infections.

Here we show that fludarabine, but not the immunosuppressant cyclosporine A, inhibits the cytokine-induced activation of STAT1 and STAT1-dependent gene transcription in normal resting or activated lymphocytes.

Fludarabine caused a specific depletion of STAT1 protein (and mRNA) but not of other STATs.

Interestingly, CyA and indomethacin did not suppress tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced adhesion molecule expression on HUVECs, whereas aspirin had an inhibitory effect.

In addition, aspirin and indomethacin, but not CyA, induced Hsp70 expression in HUVECs that correlated with induction of HSF-1 activity.

In contrast, HePTP had no effects on N-terminal c-Jun kinase or on events upstream of the MAP kinases.

The specificity of HePTP correlated with its physical association through its noncatalytic N terminus with Erk and another MAP kinase, p38, but not Jnk or other proteins.

We propose that HePTP plays a negative role in antigen receptor signaling by specifically regulating MAP kinases in the cytosol and at early time points of T cell activation before the activation-induced expression of nuclear dual-specific MAP kinase phosphatases.

Moreover, ANG II stimulated NF-kappaB activation in human monocytes, but not in lymphocytes from the same preparation.

However, binding of SHP2 to SIT is not required for inhibition of NF-AT induction, suggesting that SIT not only regulates NF-AT activity but also controls NF-AT unrelated pathways of T cell activation involving SHP2.

GrpL can be coimmunoprecipitated with SLP-76 but not with Sos1 or Sos2 from Jurkat cell lysates.

In contrast, Grb2 can be coimmunoprecipitated with Sos1 and Sos2 but not with SLP-76.

Moreover, tyrosine-phosphorylated LAT/pp36/38 in detergent lysates prepared from anti-CD3 stimulated T cells associated with Grb2 but not GrpL.

MATERIALS AND METHODS: Human monocytes were stimulated with PMA (50 ng/ml) alone or LPS (100 ng/ml) with and without a nonspecific serine/threonine protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine (Stauro), a specific pan-PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide (Bis), or an inhibitor of PTK genistein (Gen).

Nonspecific protein kinase inhibition inhibited NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha release, while specific PKC inhibition with Bis had no effect on LPS-induced NF-kappaB DNA binding or TNF-alpha release.

2. Flow cytometry revealed binding of N-hydroxy (SMX-NHOH) and nitroso (SMX-NO) metabolites of SMX, but not of SMX itself, to the surface of viable white blood cells.

5. Neutrophil apoptosis and inhibition of neutrophil function were induced at lower concentrations of SMX-NHOH and SMX-NO than those inducing loss of membrane viability, with SMX having no effect.

However, although Wnt signals are known to inhibit the activity of the negative regulatory protein kinase glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), resulting in increased levels of beta-catenin, we find no evidence for involvement of GSK-3beta in Tcf-mediated transcription in T cells.

That is, a dominant negative GSK-3beta does not specifically activate Tcf transcription and stimuli (lithium or phytohemagglutinin) that inhibit GSK-3beta activity also do not activate Tcf reporter genes.

The transactivator CIITA behaves as a master controller of constitutive and inducible MHC class II gene activation, but its exact mechanism of action is not known.

We show, however, that the presence of CIITA does not affect the stability of the higher-order protein complex formed on DNA by RFX, X2BP and NF-Y.

Finally, we conclude that this effect of CIITA is cell-type specific, since expression of CIITA is not required for normal occupation of MHC class II promoters in B lymphocytes.

PG490 inhibits the induction of DNA binding activity at the purine-box/antigen receptor response element (ARRE)/nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NF-AT) target sequence but not at the NF-kappaB site.

In 16HBE human bronchial epithelial cells, IL-8 expression is regulated predominantly by NF-kappaB, and PG490 but not cyclosporin A can completely inhibit expression of IL-8.

Transient transfection of endothelial cells with ICAM-1 promoter luciferase reporter gene (ICAM-1LUC) constructs indicated that deletion of upstream NF-kappa B site (-533 bases from translation start site) had no effect on thrombin responsiveness, whereas mutation/deletion of downstream NF-kappa B site (-223 bases from the translation start site) prevented the activation of ICAM-1 promoter, indicating that the downstream NF-kappa B site is critical for thrombin inducibility.

However, CTLA-4 ligation did not appear to affect the CD28-mediated stabilization of IL-2 mRNA.

These results indicate that CTLA-4 signaling inhibits events early in T cell activation both at IL-2 transcription and at the level of IL-2-independent events of the cell cycle, and does not simply oppose CD28-mediated costimulation.

The signaling events that link FGF receptor-1 engagement and NF-kappaB activation in Jurkat are probably distinct from the CD28 costimulation pathway, since FGF-1-induced Rel/kappaB binding proteins do not contain significant levels of c-Rel and are not identical with the CD28 response complex.

Our data demonstrate that those cell lines lacking capability to form metastatic tumors in vivo are susceptible to TNF induced apoptosis in vitro.

This finding may provide a tool to improve current protocols of immunotherapy and insights to how tumor cells are or are not killed by LAK cells.

AP-1 but not NF-IL-6 DNA binding activity was also detected in C5a-stimulated PBMC; however, its delayed expression (maximal at 4 hours) suggested a less important role in the rapid production of IL-8.

C5a-induced reporter gene expression was abolished by introducing mutations into the kappaB sites and by coexpression of a dominant negative IkappaBalpha construct resistant to agonist-induced phosphorylation.

Packaging of viral particles, integration into the target genome, and stability of the integrated provirus are not affected by the LTR modification.

However, a role for NF-kappaB in human CD34(+) bone marrow cells has not been described.

In vitro studies on hematopoietic control mechanisms have been hampered by the heterogeneity of the analyzed cell populations, ie, lack of lineage specificity and developmental stage homogeneity of progenitor/precursor cells growing in culture.

In the culture system reported here, (1) the growth factor (GF) stimulus induces cord blood (CB) progenitor cells to proliferate and differentiate/mature exclusively along the erythroid lineage; (2) this erythropoietic wave is characterized by less than 4% apoptotic cells; (3) asymmetric divisions are virtually absent, ie, nonresponsive hematopoietic progenitors with no erythropoietic potential are forced into apoptosis; (4) the system is cell division controlled (cdc), ie, the number of divisions performed by each cell is monitored.

Freshly isolated CD34(+) cells expressed CD34, c-kit, PU.1, and GATA-2 but did not express CD36, erythropoietin receptor (EpoR), SCL/Tal1, EKLF, NF-E2, GATA-1, or glyocophorin A (GPA).

In late stages of erythroid maturation, GPA was upregulated, whereas CD34, c-kit, PU.1, and GATA-2 were barely or not detected.

In contrast, virus reactivation was not observed following CD4 oligomerization by antibodies that bind other epitopes in D1, including the D1/CDR3-loop.

Of even more interest, IkappaBalpha overexpression inhibited the production of matrix metalloproteinases 1 and 3 while not affecting their tissue inhibitor.

Human MCM5 and MCM6 promoters with mutation in the E2F sites failed in promoter regulation following serum stimulation and exogenous E2F expression.

At least in the case of the IL1B promoter, repression did not seem to involve another factor whose activity is affected by the NSAIDs, NFkappaB as the IL1B promoter fragment used in our studies is not NFkappaB responsive and binds specifically to HSF1.

Exposure to NSAIDs had a complex effect on HSP gene expression and while sulindac activated the stress responsive HSP70B promoter, sodium salicylate did not.

Disruption of alpha beta but not of gamma delta T cell development by overexpression of the helix-loop-helix protein Id3 in committed T cell progenitors.

Enforced expression of Id3, which has the capacity to inhibit many basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, in human CD34(+) hematopoietic progenitor cells that have not undergone T cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangements inhibits development of the transduced cells into TCRalpha beta and gamma delta cells in a fetal thymic organ culture (FTOC).

Here we document that overexpression of Id3, in progenitors that have initiated TCR gene rearrangements (pre-T cells), inhibits development into TCRalpha beta but not into TCRgamma delta T cells.

We also observed that cell surface CD4(-)CD8(-)CD3(-) cells with rearranged TCR genes developed from Id3-transduced but not from control-transduced pre-T cells in an FTOC.

Both c-Rel and RelA induced jagged1 gene expression, whereas a mutant defective for transactivation did not.

RESULTS: A human IL-5 promoter/enhancer-luciferase gene construct, pIL-5(-511)Luc, was transcribed on activation of IL-5-producing T-cell clones, but not IL-5-nonproducing clones.

pIL-5(-511)Luc was transcribed by T-cell hybridomas derived from fusion between IL-5-producing T-cell clones and an IL-5 gene-nonexpressing T-cell line, but not by hybridomas derived from IL-5-nonproducing T-cell clones.

IL-5 synthesis was not only induced by T-cell receptor stimulation but also by IL-2 receptor stimulation.

Binding of NF-AT, NF-kappaB, and AP-1 was induced by T-cell receptor (TcR) stimulation, although there was no significant upregulation of binding by IL-2 stimulation.

Before exposure to low shear (2 dyn/cm2) for 6 h, HAEC were preincubated with or without the antioxidants pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) or N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC).

Nuclear localization and formation of beta-catenin-lymphoid enhancer factor 1 complexes are not sufficient for activation of gene expression.

We have introduced a small deletion within beta-catenin (Delta19) that disrupts binding to LEF-1, E-cadherin, and APC but not axin.

This Delta19 beta-catenin mutant localizes to the nucleus because it may not be efficiently sequestered in the cytoplasm.

beta-Catenin and LEF-1 complexes can activate reporter gene expression in a transformed T-lymphocyte cell line (Jurkat) but not in normal T lymphocytes, even though both factors are nuclear.

Thus, localization of both factors to the nucleus is not sufficient for activation of gene expression.

Excess beta-catenin can squelch reporter gene activation by LEF-1-beta-catenin complexes but not activation by the transcription factor VP16.

This was not the case when PBMC were pre-cultured in plastic multidishes in the presence of IL-10.

TNF mRNA expression induced by LPS was decreased when the pre-treatment of PBMC with IL-10 was performed on plastic, whereas this was not the case when cells were pre-cultured with IL-10 on Teflon.

In contrast, the adherence parameter has no effect on the IL-10-induced modulation of some monocyte surface markers.

Inhibition of NF-kappaB has been achieved by pharmacological and genetic approaches; however, monocyte interactions with activated endothelium in shear flow following gene transfer of the NF-kappaB inhibitor IkappaB-alpha have not been studied.

Surprisingly, we find also that the interaction between SLP-76 and Vav is not required for their cooperation in augmenting IL-2 promoter activity, as the two molecules appear to function in different signaling pathways upstream of IL-2 gene expression.

In contrast, overexpression of Vav leads to enhanced nuclear factor of activated T cells activity without affecting AP-1.

Additionally, overexpression of Vav, but not SLP-76, augments CD28-induced IL-2 promoter activity.

In vivo inhibition of NF-kappa B in T-lineage cells leads to a dramatic decrease in cell proliferation and cytokine production and to increased cell apoptosis in response to mitogenic stimuli, but not to abnormal thymopoiesis.

Transgene expression did not affect the thymic development, but led to lowered numbers of splenic T cells and to a dramatic decrease in the ex vivo proliferative response of splenic T lymphocytes.

Analysis of IL-2 and IL-2R alpha expression demonstrated that the perturbation of the proliferation response was not attributable to an abnormal expression of these genes.

CD28 costimulation augments IL-2 secretion of activated lamina propria T cells by increasing mRNA stability without enhancing IL-2 gene transactivation.

In contrast to transcriptional activation in PBMC, EMSA revealed that CD28 coligation of CD2-activated LPMC does not result in increased binding of trans-factors to the CD28RE, nor did Western blots detect changes in I-kappaBalpha or I-kappaBbeta levels following CD28 coligation.

Furthermore, CD28 coligation fails to enhance IL-2 promoter-reporter or RE/AP construct expression in CD2-activated LPMC.

In addition, we show that PNU156804 does not block significantly the induction of either IL-2 or IL-2R alpha- and gamma-chains but inhibits IL-2-dependent T cell proliferation.

We show that PNU156804 does not inhibit c-myc and bcl-2 mRNA induction.

PNU156804 action is restricted to some signaling pathways; it does not affect NF-kappa B activation by PMA in T cells but blocks that induced by CD40 cross-linking in B lymphocytes.

We showed that IL-12 had a direct effect on IRF-1, an effect not mediated indirectly by the induction of IFN-gamma production.

Furthermore, IL-2 and IL-12 synergistically induced IRF-1, whereas IFN-alpha and IL-12 did not.

In contrast to IL-12, no up-regulation of IRF-1 was found in IL-4-stimulated cells, and IL-4 did not block IL-12-dependent up-regulation of IRF-1.

Therefore, IRF-1 may be an important contributor to IL-12 signaling, and we speculate that the defective IL-12 responses seen in IRF-1-/- mice might be attributable, in part, to the absence of this transcription factor.

Two of these regions, BR3 and BR4 located at positions -102 to -73, have not previously been described as regulators of IL-5 expression in T cells.

We show that the BR3 sequence contains a novel negative regulatory element located at positions -90 to -79 of the hIL-5 promoter, which binds Oct1, octamer-like, and YY1 nuclear factors.

Malignant transformation usually inhibits terminal cell differentiation but the precise mechanisms involved are not understood.

Regrettably, recent evidence suggests that loss-of-function alone is not always sufficient to prevent the emergence of virulent mutants.

Although many functions of human alveolar macrophages are altered compared with their precursor cell, the blood monocyte (monocyte), the reason(s) for these functional changes have not been determined.

We recently reported that human alveolar macrophages do not express AP-1 DNA binding activity (Monick, M. M., Carter, A. B., Gudmundsson, G., Geist, L. J., and Hunninghake, G. W. (1998) Am. J. Physiol. 275, L389-L397).

To determine why alveolar macrophages do not express AP-1 DNA binding activity, we first showed that there was not a decrease in expression of the FOS and JUN proteins that make up the AP-1 complex.

Even with a therapy as specific as anti-TNF antibody, it is not clear if the benefit is attributable to simple binding and clearance of TNF-alpha or to binding on the cell surface and subsequent deletion of the activated macrophage.

Challenges in developing new therapeutic strategies include not only identifying novel agents, but also improving the definitions of clinical endpoints and defining efficacy at the biologic level.

Pretreatment of cultured human ECs with the PPARalpha activators fenofibrate or WY14643 inhibited TNF-alpha-induced VCAM-1 in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, an effect not seen with PPARgamma activators.

Both PPARalpha activators decreased cytokine-induced VCAM-1 mRNA expression without altering its mRNA half-life.

The biological significance of NF-kappaB activation in T. parva-infected cells, however, has not yet been defined.

Consequently, inhibition of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and the expression of dominant negative mutant forms of components of the NF-kappaB activation pathway, such as IkappaBalpha or p65, prompt rapid apoptosis of T. parva-transformed T cells.

Downregulation of Wilms&apos; tumor gene (WT1) is not a prerequisite for erythroid or megakaryocytic differentiation of the leukemic cell line K562.

We now demonstrate that a forced exogenous expression of the four different isoforms of WT1 in K562 does not affect the differentiation response, as judged by accumulation of hemoglobin in response to hemin or the expression of megakaryocytic cell surface markers in response to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA).

We conclude that downregulation of WT1 during induced differentiation of K562 cells is not a prerequisite for erythroid or megakaryocytic differentiation of these cells.

By examining in vitro-differentiated embryonic stem cells, we showed previously that in the absence of GATA-1, committed erythroid precursors fail to complete maturation and instead undergo apoptosis.

Here we report that in erythroid cells, GATA-1 strongly induces the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein bcl-xL, but not the related proteins bcl-2 and mcl-1.

Consistent with a role for bcl-xL in mediating GATA-1-induced erythroid cell survival, in vitro-differentiated bcl-xL-/- embryonic stem cells fail to generate viable mature definitive erythroid cells, a phenotype resembling that of GATA-1 gene disruption.

Here we show that blockade of NF-kappaB activity, using a dominant negative IkappaBalpha, has opposite effects on these two apoptotic signals.

DZA inhibits the transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB through the hindrance of p65 (Rel-A) phosphorylation without reduction of its nuclear translocation and DNA binding activity.

Taken together, DZA promotes the proteolytic degradation of IkappaBalpha, but not IkappaBbeta, resulting in an increase of DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB in the nucleus in the absence of its transcriptional activity in RAW 264.7 cells.

The reduction of IkappaBalpha by DZA is neither involved in IkappaB kinase complex activation nor modulated by the addition of homocysteine.

The mediator(s) of this maturation process has not been yet defined.

Inhibition of NF-kappa B activity in human T lymphocytes induces caspase-dependent apoptosis without detectable activation of caspase-1 and -3.

Interestingly, apoptosis induced by NF-kappa B suppression, in contrast to that induced by TPEN (N,N,N&apos;,N&apos;-tetrakis [2-pyridylmethyl]ethylenediamine) or soluble Fas ligand (CD95), was observed in the absence of active death effector proteases caspase-1-like (IL-1 converting enzyme), caspase-3-like (CPP32/Yama/apopain), and caspase-6-like and without cleavage of caspase-3 substrates poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and DNA fragmentation factor-45.

Intracellular deletion variants of TLR2 lacking C-terminal 13 or 141 aa fail to recruit IRAK, which is consistent with the inability of these mutants to transmit LPS cellular signaling.

Moreover, both deletion mutants could still form complexes with wild-type TLR2 and act in a dominant-negative (DN) fashion to block TLR2-mediated signal transduction.

Activation of the Janus kinase 3-STAT5a pathway after CD40 triggering of human monocytes but not of resting B cells.

After CD40 triggering, a similar activation of the NF-kappaB (but not of the AP-1) transcription factor complex occurred in both cell preparations.

In some patients, no activation of RelA/NFkappaB1-binding activity was detectable, while in others kappaB-binding activity was modestly induced but the duration was reduced.

RCC-S did not alter the cytoplasmic levels of RelA and NF-kappaB1 but did suppress their nuclear localization and inhibited the activation of RelA/NF-kappaB1 binding complexes.

All mAECA possessed high activity against macrovascular EC, but none had significant antimicrovascular EC activity.

The mAECA, but not normal human IgG, had anti-human aortic EC activity.

The Epstein-Barr virus oncoprotein latent membrane protein 1 engages the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated proteins TRADD and receptor-interacting protein (RIP) but does not induce apoptosis or require RIP for NF-kappaB activation.

Further, LMP1 does not require TRADD residues 294 to 312 for NF-kappaB activation, while TNFR1 requires TRADD residues 296 to 302.

Surprisingly, LMP1 does not require RIP for NF-kappaB activation.

Despite constitutive association with TRADD or RIP, LMP1 does not induce apoptosis in EBV-negative Burkitt lymphoma or human embryonic kidney 293 cells.

It is interesting that IL-11 did not affect BAL fluid content of the CXC chemokines, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) and cytokine-inducible neutrophil chemoattractant (CINC); the presence of IL-11 did not affect these chemokines.

This enhancement was eliminated if a conserved 20-bp sequence was removed from the intron or if a dominant-negative ets-binding factor was co-transfected with the reporter gene.

When compared with normal cells, the activation of NF-kappa B activity in SLE patients was significantly decreased in SLE, but not in RA, patients.

NF-kappa B binding activity was absent in several SLE patients who were not receiving any medication, including corticosteroids.

Also, NF-kappa B activity remained absent in follow-up studies.

In supershift experiments using specific Abs, we showed that, in the group of SLE patients who displayed undetectable NF-kappa B activity, p65 complexes were not formed.

Finally, immunoblot analysis of nuclear extracts showed decreased or absent p65 protein levels.

The data obtained show that the three GCH molecules exert an immunosuppression on cytokine production by T lymphocytes and a strong decrease in the nuclear translocation of NF-kB in Jurkat cells; moreover, (a) not all the cytokines investigated were affected, and not with the same intensity, by the three GCH and (b) DXM inhibited the binding activity of NF-kB less than that of DFC and PDN.

At the 2 microM concentration, eosinophil cationic protein, eosinophil-derived neurotoxin, and eosinophil peroxidase did not stimulate significant levels of IL-8 production.

However, stimulation with MBP did not produce an increase in the binding activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB or activator protein-1.

MBP also induced transient increases in mRNA for macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha and MIP-1beta, but did not stimulate the release of either chemokine.

A 768-bp upstream negative regulatory region has been identified that conferred lymphocyte-specific negative regulation in a heterologous system with a 244-bp deoxycytidine kinase core promoter.

Whereas the CRE site was essential in mediating the negative activity of the upstream regulatory region in Jurkat but not in HeLa cells, mutation of the Sp1/AP-2 site decreased promoter activity in both cell lines.

Furthermore, expression of physiological levels of Bcl-x protected B cells from Fas-mediated apoptosis in the absence of NF-kappaB signaling.

Without NFAT nuclear translocation, the FasL gene is not transcribed.

Tumor cell lines with a defective retinoblastoma gene are unable to transcribe the HLA class II genes in response to IFN-gamma treatment, and reconstitution of functional Rb rescues IFN-gamma-induced class II gene expression.

By using Jurkat and primary human T lymphocytes, we demonstrate that the simultaneous activation of two second messengers of the TCR-initiated signal transduction, protein kinase C (PKC) and calcineurin, results in the synergistic activation of the IkappaBalpha kinase (IKK) complex but not of another putative IkappaBalpha kinase, p90(rsk).

We also demonstrate that the IKK complex, but not p90(rsk), is responsible for the in vivo phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha mediated by the co-activation of PKC and calcineurin.

Overexpression of dominant negative forms of IKKalpha and -beta demonstrates that only IKKbeta is the target for PKC and calcineurin.

In our previous study, we demonstrated a major positive regulatory role for GATA-1 and a negative regulatory role for GATA-2 in MBP gene transcription.

To determine the functionality of both the C/EBP- and GATA- binding sites, we analyzed whether C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 can stimulate the MBP promoter in the C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 negative Jurkat T-cell line.

Our results provide the first evidence that both GATA-1 and C/EBPbeta synergistically transactivate the promoter of an eosinophil-specific granule protein gene and that FOG may act as a negative cofactor for the eosinophil lineage, unlike its positively regulatory function for the erythroid and megakaryocyte lineages.

The requirement for TNF is further confirmed by the observation that the inability of the intermediate CD4(+) CD8(-) CD3(-) thymocytes to replicate the virus is associated with a defect in TNF production during their interaction with TEC and correlates with the absence of nuclear NF-kappaB activity in these freshly isolated thymocytes.

The other major subpopulation expressing the CD4 receptor, namely, the double-positive (DP) CD4(+) CD8(+) CD3(+/-) thymocytes, despite the entry of the virus, do not produce a significant level of virus, presumably because they are unresponsive to TNF and IL-7.

Promoter assays revealed CD28-dependent effects on both NF-kappaB and AP-1, but not on NF-AT or the intact IL-2 promoter.

We conclude that CD28 costimulation can cause substantial T cell proliferation in the absence of IL-2, which is driven by a soluble factor independent of NF-AT transactivation.

Nevertheless how the protective response is exerted by flavonoids is not well characterized.

M0/M1 leukemic cells are not sensitive to differentiating agents, whereas M3 leukemic cells are induced to undergo granulocytic differentiation after ATRA treatment but are not sensitive to VD.

Tyrosine kinase-dependent, and not protein kinase C-dependent, pathways mediate CD23-triggered NF-kappaB activation but do not participate in the direct phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha.

However, the action of dopamine on HIV-1 gene expression in cells of the immune system has not yet been examined.

However, in contrast with TNF-alpha, dopamine treatment did not affect NF-kappaB DNA binding activity nor the concentrations of p50, p65 and IkappaB-alpha proteins, which suggests a distinct NF-kappaB activation mechanism.

The transcriptional mechanisms that drive colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) myeloid progenitors to differentiate into cells of either the granulocytic or monocytic lineage are not fully understood.

Surprisingly, however, DMSO has no effect on inducible Rel A binding.

In this study, we demonstrate that constitutive expression of bcl-xl but not bcl-2, bcl-xs, bak, bad, or bax was associated with apoptosis resistance after IL-2 deprivation in CTLL-2 cells that expressed Tax.

However, the mechanism by which IFNs mediate this inhibition has not been defined.

Pretreatment of monocytes with IFN-beta or IFN-gamma, but not IL-1, IL-2, macrophage colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor, IL-6, or transforming growth factor beta suppressed activation of STAT6 by IL-4.

This inhibition was associated with decreased tyrosine phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of STAT6 and was not evident unless the cells were preincubated with IFN for at least 1 hr before IL-4 stimulation.

The inhibitory agent has several features characteristic of a ganglioside, including sensitivity to neuraminidase but not protease treatment; hydrophobicity; and molecular weight less than 3 kDa.

Indeed, we detected gangliosides in supernatants from RCC explants and not from adjacent normal kidney tissue.

This peptide potently inhibited NFAT activation and NFAT-dependent expression of endogenous cytokine genes in T cells, without affecting the expression of other cytokines that require calcineurin but not NFAT.

Compounds that interfere selectively with the calcineurin-NFAT interaction without affecting calcineurin phosphatase activity may be useful as therapeutic agents that are less toxic than current drugs.

Whereas c-Fos/c-Jun heterodimers do not exist in B cells, they form and bind to the X2-box in class II nonexpressing cells.

In contrast, NF-kappa B activity was not detected in the nucleus following long-term expression of Tax in Jurkat T lymphocytes.

A significant proportion of transcripts appear to terminate prematurely in the absence of transactivators.

Southwestern and gel renaturation experiments with the use of purified protein fractions revealed that TCF-1 alpha activity is derived from a family of 57- to 53-kD proteins that are abundantly expressed in mature and immature T-cell lines (Jurkat, CCRF-CEM) and not in mature B cells (JY, Namalwa) or nonlymphoid (HeLa) cell lines.

The TCF-1 alpha binding site was also required for TCR alpha enhancer activity in transcriptionally active extracts from Jurkat but not HeLa cells, confirming that TCF-1 alpha is a T-cell-specific transcription factor.

Each binding site contributes to the overall activity of the enhancer, however no single element seems absolutely required for activity.

However, despite its ability to activate transcription of a transfected reporter gene, the factor is apparently unable to bind to the endogenous Ig heavy chain enhancer in non-lymphoid cells: In previous experiments by others, the characteristic in vivo footprint of this factor, designated NF-muE3, was detected in B cells but not in non-B cells.

From this and other findings the picture emerges that there are at least three categories of factors which mediate cell-type-specific transcription in B lymphocytes: (a) cell-specific factors such as Oct-2A and Oct-2B that are not expressed in most other cell types: (b) ubiquitous factors such as NF-kappa B that are constitutively active in B cells but are sequestered in an inactive form in other cells; (c) ubiquitously active factors, exemplified by the one binding to the E3 sequence motif.

This factor is present in an active form in a variety of cell types but is apparently unable to bind to the endogenous Ig heavy chain enhancer in non-B cells, perhaps due to a non-permissive chromatin structure of the Ig heavy chain locus.

Treatment of HL-60 cells with both TPA and cycloheximide had no effect on the rates of c-jun transcription.

We demonstrate that the NF-microB-binding site plays a critical role in the IgH enhancer, because mutation of the microB DNA motif decreased transcriptional activity of the IgH enhancer in cells of the B-cell lineage but not in nonlymphoid cells.

Interestingly, alteration of either the microB or E3 site in a 70-base-pair fragment of the IgH enhancer that lacks the binding site for OCTA abolished enhancer activity in lymphoid cells completely.

Nevertheless, a multimer of the microB motif alone showed no enhancer activity.

The increase in c-jun and EGR2, but not c-fos, mRNA was also abrogated by cytochalasin D.

Unexpectedly, stimulation of cloned stably transfected Jurkat T cells leads to a bimodal pattern of beta-gal expression in which some cells express no beta-gal and others express high levels.

Proliferation and immunologic function of T lymphocytes are initiated by signals from the antigen receptor that are inhibited by the immunosuppressant FK506 but not by its structural analog, rapamycin.

On the other hand, interleukin 2 (IL-2)-induced signals are blocked by rapamycin but not by FK506.

Neither FKBP binding nor inhibition of rotamase activity of FKBP alone is sufficient to explain the biologic actions of these drugs.

Although negative regulation by dimethyl sulfoxide takes place even when protein synthesis is inhibited by cycloheximide, the phorbol myristate acetate effect is blocked to some extent only by cycloheximide.

Therefore, two different negative regulatory pathways are involved in c-myc regulation: one which is independent and one which depends on de novo protein synthesis.

We have investigated the induction of these genes by macrophage-CSF (M-CSF) in human monocytes that do not proliferate in response to M-CSF but require the factor for optimal cell differentiation.

The c-jun gene expression was very transient and was not detectable by 60 min after M-CSF addition.

The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide did not block the induction of any of these genes, and in fact, super-induced the expression of c-jun and hck.

Therefore, in normal human monocytes M-CSF induces immediate early response genes without inducing cell proliferation.

Stimulation of a human T-cell clone with anti-CD3 or tumor necrosis factor induces NF-kappa B translocation but not human immunodeficiency virus 1 enhancer-dependent transcription.

Interleukin 2 induced proliferation but not NF-kappa B translocation or LTR transactivation.

Phorbol ester or specific antigen recognition induced HIV LTR transactivation, whereas stimulation with tumor necrosis factor or antibody to CD3 did not.

Our finding that induction of NF-kappa B by tumor necrosis factor or antibody to CD3 is not sufficient to induce HIV enhancer-dependent transcription in cloned T cells contrasts with results obtained in most lymphoblastoid T-cell lines and indicates that normal T lymphocytes differ from tumoral T cells in terms of requirements for HIV LTR activation.

Because insertion mutations in phoP are polar on phoQ, we constructed strains that expressed the PhoQ protein in the absence of PhoP to test whether resistance to defensin requires only the phoQ gene product.

We found that resistance to defensin requires the function of both components of this regulatory system, because strains expressing PhoQ without PhoP were still markedly sensitive to defensins.

We also tested for the ability of defensins NP-1, NP-5, and HNP-1 to activate pag expression and found that these peptides have no effect.

Defensin resistance is not the only virulence characteristic controlled by the PhoP-PhoQ regulon because mutations in pagC, as well as ones in the phoP locus that resulted in constitutive pag activation (phenotype PhoPc), had no effect on defensin resistance, even though they rendered the organism avirulent and deficient in survival within macrophages.

The virulence defect conferred by mutations in the phoP-phoQ two-component regulatory system is not completely explained by alterations in resistance to cationic proteins and involves the control of other proteins necessary for S. typhimurium survival within macrophages.

This inhibitor did not affect protein kinase C-mediated gene transcription, suggesting that cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases are involved in the signal transduction pathway for IL-1 in a number of responsive cell types.

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) potently stimulates human immunodeficiency virus type 1-long terminal repeat (HIV-1-LTR) CAT constructs transfected into monocyte/macrophage-like cell lines but not a T cell line.

LPS is not able to induce HIV-1 production in a cloned T cell line.

TNF-alpha was able to increase expression of the HIV LTR in T cells, but in monocytic cells, TNF-alpha did not induce the HIV LTR above a constitutive level of activity.

This level of NF-kappa B-independent activity appears to be sufficient for virus multiplication, since TNF-alpha treatment had no effect on the kinetics of de novo HIV type 1 (HIV-1) infection and viral RNA production in U937 cells.

In melanoma cells that contain the N-Oct-3 factor, a transfected lymphocyte-specific promoter was neither activated nor was it repressed upon contransfection with an Oct-2A expression vector.

These qualitative differences in the response to T cell activation are reproduced not only when HIV-1 or HIV-2 enhancers are placed upstream of a heterologous promoter but also when these enhancers are switched between their respective LTR.

When the human epsilon- or beta-globin genes driven by the dominant control region (DCR) are introduced into this system, the human epsilon-globin gene, in contrast to the beta-globin gene, is not deregulated by the presence of the DCR and is expressed strictly as an embryonic gene.

We conclude from this that the epsilon-globin gene is not regulated by competition with other genes in the human beta-globin locus.

In order to characterize the function of cis-acting elements, we have developed an in vitro system in which a DRA promoter construct is transcribed more efficiently in extracts from B cells than in extracts from class II-negative HeLa cells.

5&apos; deletion constructs which lacked the Y box, but retained the &quot;octamer&quot; motif and TATA box were completely inactive, and internal deletion of the Y box reduced transcription by 95%.

Using supercoiled, but not linear templates, we observed differences in transcription efficiencies from templates lacking or disrupting the X consensus element that reflect effects of random replacement of X box sequences in transient expression assays.

Demonstration of the complete dependence on the Y box in this system suggests that, despite its demonstrated importance in the DRA promoter, the DRA &quot;octamer&quot; does not utilize OTF-2 in a manner analogous to immunoglobulin promoters in B cells.

These results suggest that OTF-1, without OTF-2, is sufficient for transcription of immunoglobulin genes and that OTF-2 alone is not responsible for the B-cell-specific regulation of immunoglobulin gene expression.

We have identified and separated four nuclear proteins from C81-66-45 cells, an HTLV-I immortalized Tax-expressing human T-lymphocyte line (Salahuddin et al., 1983), that interact with the TRE-DNA, none of which are identical with the Tax-protein.

A recent functional analysis by Miyatake et al. (S. Miyatake, M. Seiki, M. Yoshida, and K. Arai, Mol. Cell. Biol. 8:5581-5587, 1988) described a short promoter region in the GM-CSF gene that conferred strong inducibility by T-cell-activating signals and tax1, but no NF-kappa B-binding motifs were identified.

Exogenous ETS1, but not ELF1, can transactivate GM-CSF, through the GM5 site, in a PMA/ionomycin dependent manner.

We demonstrate in this report that the 5&apos; flanking DNA of the 15-lox gene contains sequences which down-regulate its activity in a variety of non-erythroid cell lines but not in two erythroid cell lines.

The main activity of the silencer has been mapped to the first 900 bp of 5&apos; flanking DNA, which contains nine binding sites for a nuclear factor present in non-erythroid cells but not in erythroid cells.

These syncytia lack activated cells as determined by an absence of staining for Ki-67 cell cycle antigen.

T cells lack active NF-kappa B but express Sp1 as expected.

However, DCs lack Sp1, which may explain the failure of HIV-1 to replicate in purified DCs.

Since DCs and memory T cells frequently traffic together in situ, these unusual heterologous syncytia could develop in infected individuals and lead to chronic HIV-1 replication without ostensible immune stimulation.

Neither phosphorylation nor degradation of I kappa B alpha was observed upon TNF-alpha stimulation in the presence of Cu2+.

In contrast, two other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, ibuprofen and indomethacin, did not inhibit LPS induction of the TF gene.

It has long been a puzzle that MHC class II molecules are expressed in human T cells after activation but not in mouse T cells; this expression is believed to play a role in the cell mediated immune response.

Here we show that human T cells expressing MHC class II have CIITA transcripts while MHC class II-negative human T cells and mouse T cells do not.

These data indicate that the expression of CIITA explains the expression or lack of expression of MHC class II in human and mouse T cells respectively.

Synergistic induction of the IL-6 gene by IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, in monocytic cells, involved cooperation between the IRF-1 and NF kappa B p65 homodimers with concomitant removal of the negative effect of the retinoblastoma control element present in the IL-6 promoter.

Proteolytic activity of the enzyme was required for this effect since diisopropyl fluorophosphate-thrombin failed to increase [Ca2+]i.

FK506 suppressed the transcriptions through the AP-1 or kappa B-like sites induced by PMA plus Ca(2+)-mobilizing agents, but not those induced by Ca(2+)-independent stimuli.

In contrast, FK506 or EGTA (Ca2+ chelator) similarly affected the formation of kappa B-like site binding complexes, which were not recognized by any antibodies against the human Rel family proteins (c-Rel, p65, p50, and p49).

Our results indicate that not only the reported IL-2 NF-AT and NFIL-2A sites and Ig kappa B site, but also the IL-8 AP-1 and kappa B-like sites are terminals of FK506-sensitive pathway involving Ca2+ mobilization.

The CD14 LPS receptor is, however, up-regulated (not down-regulated) in tolerant cells, and LPS can, in fact, still lead to activation of tolerant cells as evidenced by mobilization of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B).

Agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion, but not basal adhesion, was inhibited in a time- and concentration-dependent manner by alpha-tcp.

Probucol (50 microM) and N-acetylcysteine (20 mM) also inhibited agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion; whereas, several other antioxidants had no significant effect.

Protein kinase C (PKC) does not appear to play a role in the alpha-tcp effect since no suppression of phosphorylation of PKC substrates was observed.

Activation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B is reported to be necessary but not sufficient for E-selectin expression in EC.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assays failed to show an alpha-tcp-induced decrease in activation of this transcription factor after cytokine stimulation.

However, it was not possible to ascertain whether Bcl-2 upregulation was a specific consequence of LMP1 expression or an artifact of the selection procedure whereby rare Bcl-2+ cells already present in the starting population might best be able to tolerate the potentially toxic effects of LMP1.

We therefore reexamined this issue by using two different experimental approaches that allowed LMP1- induced effects to be monitored immediately following expression of the viral protein and in the absence of selective pressures; activation of the NF-kappa B transcription factor and upregulation of the cell adhesion molecule ICAM-1 were used as early indices of LMP1 function.

In the same experiments, all three non-B-cell lines showed NF-kappa B activation and ICAM-1 upregulation but never any effect upon Bcl-2.

CD14-mediated translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B induced by lipopolysaccharide does not require tyrosine kinase activity.

A critical issue concerns the mechanism by which CD14, which has no transmembrane domain, transduces its signal following LPS binding.

Protein synthesis inhibitors and corticosteroids, which suppress arachidonate release and the synthesis of proinflammatory cytokines, had no effect on translocation of NF-kappa B in CHO/CD14 or RAW 264.7 cells, demonstrating that NF-kappa B translocation is an early event.

Although TK activity was consistently observed by immunoblotting extracts from activated RAW 264.7 cells, LPS-induced phosphotyrosine residues were not observed from similarly treated CHO/CD14 cells.

Furthermore, the TK inhibitors herbimycin A and genistein failed to inhibit translocation of NF-kappa B in CHO/CD14 or RAW 264.7 cells, although both of these agents inhibited LPS-induced TK activity in RAW 264.7 cells.

These results imply that TK activity is not obligatory for CD14-mediated signal transduction to occur in response to LPS.

A 3-bp mutation at the distal Sp1-binding site not only eliminates Sp1 interaction, but also abolishes most of the VitD3 induction of CD14 expression.

Electrophoretic mobility shift analysis does not detect a direct interaction of the CD14 distal Sp1-binding site with the vitamin D3 receptor and its partner, the retinoid X receptor.

CAML appears to be a new participant in the calcium-signal transduction pathway, implicating cyclophilin B in calcium signalling, even in the absence of cyclosporin.

Upon stimulation of the cells, this protein no longer prevents binding of DNA by Band A, and suppression of binding is restored within 30 min.

In contrast, SCL mRNA levels did not decrease significantly between day 7 and day 14 cells, suggesting that posttranscriptional mechanisms are largely responsible for the decrease in SCL protein observed.

SCL mRNA levels assessed by Northern blot in day 7 cells did not increase significantly in response to Steel factor stimulation, suggesting that posttranscriptional mechanisms may also be important in the increase in SCL protein observed in response to Steel.

We distinguish the stimuli-specific pathways by showing that the oxidative stimuli trigger NF-kappa B activation in only one of two human T-cell lines (Wurzburg but not Jurkat), whereas tumor necrosis factor alpha and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate readily stimulate in both lines.

The adherence-dependent increase in I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 mRNA levels was also not a consequence of mRNA stabilization events.

Interestingly, while increases in both IL-1 beta and I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 mRNA levels were detected in nuclei of adherent monocytes, cytoplasmic levels of IL-1 beta mRNA increased during adherence whereas those of I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 mRNA did not.

We propose that adherent monocytes regulate nuclear processing (or decay) of I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 mRNA, thereby increasing mRNA levels without stimulating I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 gene transcription.

Moreover, since inhibition of protein synthesis leads to accumulation of I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 mRNA without stimulating I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 gene transcription, we suggest that low cytoplasmic levels of I kappa B alpha/MAD-3 mRNA are maintained by a translation-dependent degradation mechanism.

This implicates E2F as a multifunctional target for proteins and enzymes, possibly, responsive to DNA damage through the negative effect of UDG on E2F-mediated transcriptional activity.

Induction of VCAM-1 and E-selectin surface expression by TNF was dose-dependently reduced by aspirin over the same range, while induction of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) was hardly affected.

These effects of aspirin were not related to the inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity, since indomethacin was ineffective.

2. Danazol did not alter the degradation rate of ER mRNA in monocytes.

CD30 cross-linking does not alter proliferation of ACH-2 cells and the induction of HIV expression is not mediated by endogenous TNF alpha/beta.

In contrast, integrin ligation with antibodies induces tyrosine phosphorylation of Syk but not of FAK or paxillin.

In adhering cells, pre-treatment with cytochalasin D suppresses tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK and paxillin but not of Syk, while IL-1 beta message induction is unaffected.

Inhibition of endogenous NO production by L-N-monomethyl-arginine also induced the expression of VCAM-1, but did not augment cytokine-induced VCAM-1 expression.

We now demonstrate that B7, but not LFA-3, strongly costimulated IL-2 transcription and mRNA expression in CD4+ T cells.

LFA-3 induced moderate levels of AP-1, but did not influence the levels of NF-kappa B, while B7 costimulation strongly induced both AP-1 and substantially enhanced NF-kappa B binding proteins.

CsA also suppressed E-selectin, but not vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) expression in endothelial cells, even though the E-selectin promoter is activated by NF-kappa B rather than NFAT.

To compare the role of CD28, neonatal and adult T cells were stimulated with a pair of mitogenic anti-CD2 antibodies in the presence or absence of anti-CD28 MoAb.

With anti-CD2 alone, neonatal T cells proliferated slightly but produced no detectable IL-2, whereas adult T cells proliferated vigorously, with significant IL-2 production.

VDR DNA-binding mutants were unable to either bind to this element in vitro or repress in vivo; the VDR DNA-binding domain alone, however, bound the element but also could not repress IL-2 expression.

These results indicate that DNA binding by VDR is necessary but not sufficient to mediate IL-2 repression.

Genomic sequence upstream of the Fc gamma RIC gene was cloned and subjected to primer extension analysis, which demonstrated a single transcription initiation site without a TATA box.

Double-stranded GIRE sequence, but not a scrambled sequence, was specifically bound by nuclear proteins from IFN-gamma treated U937 cells.

A naturally occurring mutation (-175 T-C) in the area bound by HMG-I results in overexpression of gamma-globin in adult red blood cells (HPFH) and up-regulation of the gamma-globin promoter in in vitro expression assays; HMG-I does not bind to this mutant sequence.

Because it is not clear at which point in cell cycle the peripheral B lymphocytes are arrested, we characterized the expression of several cell cycle-associated genes in quiescent and stimulated cells.

By comparison, an isotype-matched antibody had no effect on NF-kappa B activation.

Hematopoietic tissues from these mice display elevated levels of both nuclear NF-kappa B and mRNAs of some, but not all, genes thought to be regulated by NF-kappa B.

NF-kappa B elevation results in these phenotypic abnormalities because mice lacking both I kappa B alpha and the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B show a dramatically delayed onset of abnormalities.

Our results indicate that I kappa b beta, but not I kappa B alpha, is required for the signal-dependent activation of NF-kappa B in fibroblasts.

Activation of Ca(2+)-dependent pathways alone do not result in the phosphorylation and/or degradation of IkB alpha in Jurkat T or in U937 cells.

Treatment of T cells with the selective PKC inhibitor GF109203X abrogates the PMA-induced IkB alpha phosphorylation/degradation irrespective of activation of Ca(2+)-dependent pathways, but not the phosphorylation and degradation of IkB alpha induced by TNF-alpha, a PKC-independent stimulus.

Contrary to the interaction with PKC, Ca(2+)-dependent pathways synergize with TNF-alpha not at the level of IkB alpha phosphorylation, but at the level of its degradation.

Monocytic cell lines and normal peripheral blood monocytes were infected with HIV-1 in vitro and cultured in the presence or absence of F(ab&apos;)2 fragments of monoclonal anti-CR1 or anti-CR3 Abs or with C3 fragments.

TNF-alpha did not mediate the translocation of NF-kappa B p50/p65 induced by triggering of complement receptors.

NF-IL6 mRNA was found in human Jurkat T cells and in the mouse Th2 clone D10, but not in Th1 clone 29.

Positive and negative regulation of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoter activity by AML1-related transcription factor, PEBP2.

The peri-kappa B site mediates human immunodeficiency virus type 2 enhancer activation in monocytes but not in T cells.

This site is conserved among isolates of HIV-2 and the closely related simian immunodeficiency virus, and transfection assays show this site to mediate HIV-2 enhancer activation following stimulation of monocytic but not T-cell lines.

This is the first description of an HIV-2 enhancer element which displays such monocyte specificity, and no comparable enhancer element has been clearly defined for HIV-1.

Thapsigargin (TG), an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-ATPase, depletes intracellular Ca2+ stores and induces a sustained Ca2+ influx without altering phosphatidyl inositol levels.

TG plus phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) but not TG alone induced IL-2 in Jurkat T cells, suggesting that TG had no effect on protein kinase C (PKC).

PMA- but not TG-induced IL-2R alpha is inhibited by the PKC inhibitor H7, whereas TG- but not PMA-induced IL-2R alpha was inhibited by cholera toxin, forskolin and 1,9-dideoxy forskolin.

In contrast, NFAT activation by a G-protein-coupled receptor is not modulated by p95vav overexpression, suggesting that the effect is specific to the TCR signaling pathways.

We further demonstrate that the p95vav-induced NFAT activation is not mimicked by Ras activation, though its function is dependent upon Ras and Raf.

However, overexpression of p95vav does not appear to influence TCR-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation or increases in cytoplasmic free calcium.

Our studies demonstrate that incubation of human T cells with low concentrations (approximately 1-5 nM) of calyculin A or okadaic acid, potent inhibitors of protein phosphatase type 1 (PP-1) and type 2A (PP-2A), induces the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha even in the absence of any cellular stimulus.

This action of the phosphatase inhibitors, which is associated with the activation of the RelA.p50 NF-kappa B heterodimer, is not affected by agents that block the induction of I kappa B alpha phosphorylation by tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha).

Furthermore, the phosphorylated I kappa B alpha from calyculin A-treated cells, but not that from TNF-alpha-stimulated cells, is sensitive to PP-2A in vitro, suggesting the existence of fundamental differences in the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha induced by the two different NF-kappa B inducers.

We further demonstrate that TNF-alpha- and calyculin A-induced I kappa B alpha degradation exhibits similar but not identical sensitivities to a proteasome inhibitor.

Coexpression of HMG I/Y and Oct-2 in cell lines lacking Oct-2 results in high levels of HLA-DRA gene expression, and in vitro DNA-binding studies reveal that HMG I/Y stimulates Oct-2A binding to the HLA-DRA promoter.

By contrast, Oct-2A is not involved in the IFN-gamma induction of the HLA-DRA gene in HeLa cells, but antisense HMG I/Y dramatically decreases the level of induction.

Because these are the characteristics of a signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) protein, we determined whether antibodies to Stat proteins will interfere with gel mobility shift and found that antibodies to IL-4 Stat, also known as Stat6, but not antibodies to other Stat proteins, interfere with the formation of the IL-4 NAF complex.

Although the binding of this complex is not cyclosporin-sensitive, promoter induction is inhibited by cyclosporin treatment.

Co-expression of Ras and calcineurin, however, did not activate the GM-CSF promoter, but required the additional expression of NF-kappa B p65.

The thromboxane receptor gene has neither a TATA nor a CAAT consensus site.

Several studies have established that Tat releases an elongation block to the transcription of HIV long terminal repeat (LTR); however, it is not known whether this mechanism alone is sufficient to explain the block to HIV replication in human T cells when Tat is absent.

Thus, despite its essential role for releasing an elongation block, Tat is not otherwise absolutely required for synthesis of full-length HIV transcripts and assembly of virus particles.

Direct sequencing of the viral genomes and reinfection kinetics showed no evidence of wild-type reversion even after prolonged infection with the Tat- virus.

The putative factors that couple the signal transduction from surface receptors to the activation of cytokine synthesis in natural killer (NK) cells have not been elucidated.

This occurs with fast kinetics after stimulation, via a CsA-sensitive and Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism that does not require de novo protein synthesis.

The results of supershift assays using NFATp- and NFATc- specific antibodies indicate that NK cell activation early after CD16 ligand binding involves primarily, if not exclusively, NFATp, and Western blot analysis shows that this has the same electrophoretic mobility (approximately 120 kD) as that of T lymphocytes.

NK cells do not express NFATc constitutively, but NFATc mRNA accumulation is induced in these cells within 2 h of stimulation with CD16 ligands.

However, supershift assays using the available mAb recognizing the T cell NFATc revealed no detectable NFATc protein in nuclear and cytoplasmic extracts from CD16- or phorbol ester-stimulated cells at any time tested, up to 4 h.

Our previous data obtained from a tax transgenic mouse model revealed that tax transforms mouse fibroblasts but not thymocytes, despite comparable levels of tax expression in both tissues.

Constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation of a 130-kD protein(s) was observed in the tax transformed fibroblast B line and in HTLV-1 transformed human lymphoid lines, but not in thymocytes from Thy-tax transgenic mice.

The GATA-1 and Sp1 binding sites in this promoter lacking a TATA sequence were necessary for a high level of transcription activation.

By increasing GATA-1 levels via co-transfection, we were able to transactivate the hEpoR promoter in K562 cells and non-erythroid cells, but not in the highly active OCIM1 cells, although GATA-1 mRNA levels were comparable in OCIM1 and K562.

These data suggest that while GATA-1 can transactivate the EpoR promoter, the level of hEpoR gene expression does not depend on GATA-1 alone.

We found that the TCL1 gene was overexpressed in the PBLs of an AT patient with a large clonal T-cell population exhibiting the t(14;14) translocation but not in the lymphocytes of the other cases.

In EBV-transformed B clones, the chi B site exerted the strongest inducible activity; the NF-AT binding sites showed either no or only weak activity compared to Jurkat T cells.

The mechanism of generation of p50 is not known.

In contrast, in a number of multiple myeloma cell lines, representing differentiated, plasma cell-like B cells, PU.1 DNA binding activity, mRNA expression, and Pu box-dependent transactivation were absent or detectable at a very low level.

At present, it is unclear whether the lack of PU.1 expression and activity in human multiple myeloma cell lines represents a malignancy-associated defect in these cells or exemplifies a normal developmental regulation in terminally differentiated B cells.

In unstimulated cells which do not secrete IL-2, only Sp1 binds to this region, while in stimulated IL-2 secreting cells the inducible EGR-1 protein recognizes this element.

The antagonists, however, had no effect on phorbol ester-induced up-regulation of HB-EGF mRNA and kappa B binding activity.

Pretreatment of monocytes with pertussis toxin inhibited these functions of PAF, whereas cholera toxin had no inhibitory effect.

The synergistic antigen receptor initiated signals are mediated through protein kinase C because they can be mimicked by the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, but not with calcium ionophores; and are staurosporine sensitive but cyclosporine resistant.

Gel shift analyses demonstrate that NF-kappa B nuclear translocation is stimulated primarily by IL-1 rather than by antigen receptor signals.

Western blot and phosphorylation analyses demonstrate that the synergistic effect on NF-kappa B functional activity is independent of I kappa B alpha (MAD3)-NF-kappa B dissociation in the cytosol and is not associated with I kappa B nuclear translocation.

Aspirin-like drugs (ALD) induce calcium mobilization, an essential component of T cell activation, but do not induce the biosynthesis of IL-2.

We found that ALD induce a transient activation of protein kinase (PKC) but have no effect (in comparison to anti-CD3 antibodies) on protein tyrosine phosphorylation nor on PCL gamma 1 tyrosine phosphorylation.

ALD-induced calcium mobilization and PKC activation are independent of tyrosine protein kinase activity as shown by the lack of effect of herbimycin, a tyrosine-protein kinase-specific inhibitor.

Although we detected no IL-2 mRNA in ALD-treated cells, the nuclei of these cells contain proteins capable of binding to three regulatory sequences in the IL-2 promoter region: NFAT, NF kappa B, and AP-1.

These data suggest that ALD cause transient but significant changes in T cell transmembrane signaling, although some events induced by stimulation with anti-CD3 antibodies are not induced by ALD.

However, the ALD stimulus is not capable of causing complete T cell activation.

Several other transcription factors including NF-IL-6, AP-1, AP-2, GR, CREB, Oct-1, and Sp-1 are not affected by IL-10.

Further examination reveals that, unlike IL-10, IL-4 enhances mRNA degradation and does not suppress cytokine gene transcription.

The nuclear factor binds to the DR alpha and DP alpha element but not to the element in the DQ alpha gene.

Specifically, removal of the N-terminal 36 amino acids of I kappa B alpha failed to disrupt its ability to form latent complexes with NF-kappa B in the cytoplasm.

Viral transcription, as measured using LTR-CAT assays, was only slightly enhanced in the HIV-protease expressing cells, while secretion of IL-2 and expression of the IL-2 receptor were not affected.

The limited activation of NF-kappa B by HIV protease appears unlikely to have a significant effect on virus expression or T cell function.

However, unlike another tumor suppressor protein, p53, Rb did not have any significant effect on basal levels of transcription, suggesting that Rb specifically interacts with IE2 rather than other cellular factors involved in the general transcription machinery.

Circularization of the EBV genome was not detected.

In addition, we demonstrated that the EBNA-1 gene in infected thymocytes was transcribed from the Fp promoter, rather than from the Cp/Wp promoter which is used in latently infected B cells.

Transcripts encoding gp350/220, the major coat protein of EBV, were identified, but we did not find any evidence of transcription from the LMP-2A or EBER-1 loci in infected thymocytes.

The main difference is that with thymocytes, no evidence could be found that the virus ever circularizes.

In both transformed and normal lymphocytes, OKA stimulation induced intense phosphorylation of the constitutively expressed Sp1 protein in the nucleus, a property of OKA not shared by TNF, phorbol ester, or PHA and interleukin 2.

Responsiveness of LTR constructs deleted of kappa B elements to HIV Tat expression was increased upon OKA but not TNF stimulation.

Type II major histocompatibility complex combined immune deficiency (type II MHC CID or bare lymphocyte syndrome) is a congenital immunodeficiency disease characterized by absent MHC class II expression.

Since CIITA overexpression in normal cells did not increase class II expression, we propose that initiation of CIITA expression serves as the on-off switch, while availability of downstream interactor(s) limits transcription.

Utilizing transient transfection assays in the fetal erythroid cell line, K562, we have shown that the core enhancer of hypersensitivity site 2 can preferentially interact with the proximal gamma-promoter in the absence of the SSE, completely silencing a linked beta-promoter.

Yet, the levels of the activating NF-AT complex never reach those observed in similarly stimulated normal T cells.

One member, ICK-1A, behaves as a strong negative regulator.

Furthermore, we show that the ICK-1 binding site does not confer negative regulation in U937 cells.

A mutation of the MNP site which does not abrogate ICK-1 binding inactivates the GOS19.1 promoter in U937 cells and reduces its activity by fourfold in Jurkat cells.

NF kappa B controls many immunologically important genes, so our studies suggest that the immune system may be sensitive not only against a cysteine and glutathione deficiency but also against an excess of cysteine.

However, it was not detected in lymphoid cells MOLT4 (T cell) and BALL1 (B cell), nor in K562 erythroblasts.

By primer extension analysis to discriminate two transcripts, we found that the levels of PAFR transcript 1 (leukocyte-type), but not PAFR transcript 2 (tissue-type), are upregulated by PAF as well as by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in the human stomach cancer cell line (JR-St cells) which expresses both functional PAFR transcript 1 and PAFR transcript 2 endogenously.

Functional analysis of the promoter 1 with a transient expression assay using chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene as a reporter showed that both PAF and TPA activated the promoter 1 but not the deleted promoter lacking the three consensus binding sites for NF-kappa B located from -571 bp to -459 bp.

The element is not activated upon infection of established EBV-negative B-cell lines, indicating that EBV fails to drive these cells to a fully lymphoblastoid phenotype.

An NF-kappa B binding site is an essential component of the element but alone is not sufficient to account for the activity or the specificity of the element.

The EBV-encoded latent membrane protein 1 is capable of transactivating the isolated CD48 NF-kappa B site but not the intact element, suggesting that the latent membrane protein 1-driven activation of NF-kappa B/Rel must interact with other regulatory pathways to control expression of cellular genes as EBV drives resting B cells into the cell cycle.

It was not possible to reconstitute dioxin receptor function with proteins expressed in wheat germ lysate.

In line with these observations, reticulocyte lysate but not wheat germ lysate promoted the association of de novo synthesized dioxin receptor with hsp90.

Whereas ligand-binding activity correlated with association with hsp90, bHLH-hsp90 interaction appeared to be important for DNA-binding activity but not for dimerization of the receptor.

Both positive and negative regulatory elements were identified in the proximal 5&apos; flanking region of the IL-3 gene.

At variance, the second peak which has never been reported previously, lasted several hours.

First, cycloheximide strongly potentiated the transcription of the second wave, whereas it failed to affect the early-induced burst.

Second, tyrphostin, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, impaired the expression of the first but not the second junB mRNA peak.

Conversely, genistein, another tyrosine kinase inhibitor, totally abolished the expression of the second peak of junB mRNA whereas it did not affect the expression of the first peak.

Activation also induced c-rel and p105/p50 mRNA synthesis, but not p65 mRNA whose expression was constitutive.

Interestingly, all those early and late events, but not the immediate ones, were inhibited by a neutralizing anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) monoclonal antibody.

Cyclosporin A impaired not only early and late, but also immediate events; however, addition of TNF-alpha prevented all inhibition.

These results indicate that the regulation of NF-kappa B activation during T cell activation by TcR/CD3 signals is biphasic: TcR/CD3 triggers its immediate translocation, which is transient if no TNF-alpha is present.

Protein kinase C is not a downstream effector of p21ras in activated T cells.

Data is presented, using the potent and selective PKC inhibitor Ro 31-8425 and transient expression of a constitutively active ras mutant, which clearly shows that PKC is not downstream of p21ras in the induction of NF-AT and AP-1 transcriptional activity and in the expression of IL-2 in human Jurkat T cells.

Reporter gene experiments demonstrated that NF-kappa B transcriptional activity is not affected by expression of activated p21ras.

A predominance of p50 NF-kappa B moieties and possibly p50 homodimers or closely related species, rather than the p50-p56 heterodimer of NF-kappa B that is the predominant NF-kappa B species in most T lymphocytic and monocytic cells, is demonstrated in the nuclei of U1 cells.

Northern blot analysis showed that neither of these agents reduced LPS-stimulated TF mRNA accumulation, thereby suggesting a posttranscriptional mechanism for the effect.

Furthermore, these conditions did not result in an accumulation of the less mature forms of TF.

The effect of antioxidants on tumor necrosis factor appeared to be species specific, with no effect on LPS-induced tumor necrosis factor in murine cells, but with inhibition in human monocytes.

First, we show that persistent HIV infection results in the activation of NF-kappa B not only in monocytic cells but also in macrophages.

Thus, deregulation of genes encoding for certain hemopoietic growth factors or receptors does not seem to represent a major mechanism of MDS progression.

Biochemical studies demonstrate that OBF-1 has no intrinsic DNA-binding activity and recognizes the POU domains of Oct-1 and Oct-2, but not those of Oct-4 and Oct-6.

The OBF-1 mRNA is expressed in a highly cell-specific manner, being most abundant in B cells and essentially absent in most of the other cells or tissues tested.

However, the events leading from the activated receptor to cell lysis are not understood.

Furthermore, we show that retinoic acid can also induce apoptosis in these cells through the retinoic acid receptor, whose repressive functions but not target site specificity, are similar to those of the glucocorticoid receptor.

Therefore, the primary effect of the receptor in glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis correlates with transcriptional repression rather than activation and could be mediated by interference with other transcription factors required for cell survival.

These latter effects were due to increases in the nuclear localization of GR, not to reduced amounts of the other transcription factors.

These results suggest that CaM-K II may exert negative influences on cytokine gene transcription in human T cells, and provide preliminary evidence for negative cross-talk with the calcineurin- and PKC- dependent signaling systems.

When either serine-32 or serine-36 of I kappa B-alpha was mutated, the protein did not undergo signal-induced phosphorylation or degradation, and NF-kappa B could not be activated.

Negative, positive, and no effects of Nef have also been reported on viral replication in cells.

RESULTS: Both all-trans and 9-cis RA inhibited virus replication in HIV-1 IIIB-infected monocytoid cells, in the presence and absence of the co-stimulatory agent phorbol myristate acetate (PMA).

The retinoids had weak or no stimulatory effects on HIV production by T-cell lines.

Human RXR alpha was significantly expressed in U937 and THP-1 cells, weakly expressed in H9 cells and not detectable in CEM cells.

After stimulation by PMA, RXR alpha expression increased in H9 and U937 cells but not in CEM cells.

We have previously described a mutant B lymphoblastoid cell line, Clone-13, that expresses HLA-DQ in the absence of HLA-DR and -DP.

Insertion of oligonucleotides spanning the DQB X-box (but not the DQB-W region or the DQB Y-box) upstream of -141 in a DRA reporter plasmid rescued expression to nearly wild-type levels.

This element has no activity in T cells of the Jurkat line.

The NFATd element, which binds the transcription factor NFAT-1 and is very active in T cells, is only weakly active in one B clone and not at all in another.

Removal of the carboxy terminus enables ERP to interact with a variety of ets-binding sites including the E74 site, the IgH enhancer pi site, and the lck promoter ets site, suggesting a carboxy-terminal negative regulatory domain.

HIV-1 expression was activated from J delta K cells by treatment with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), sodium butyrate (NaB), or hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA), but not tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), confirming the role of NF-kappa B in mediating TNF-alpha induction of HIV transcription.

This resulted in only a partial inhibition of TNF- or PMA- induced HIV replication in U1 cells, and no detectable effect on HIV replication in chronically infected U937 cells.

These parameters were not modified by Nef expression in Jurkat cells, whereas stimulation with the same stimuli resulted in partial inhibition of LTR activation in Nef+ Jurkat cells.

This inhibition was not mediated through Nef phosphorylation on Thr-15 or GTP-binding activity because mutations in critical sites did not alter this inhibition.

Analysis of truncated LTRs confirmed that inhibition of LTR activation was not mediated through NF-kappa B-binding activity but through the region containing the negative responding elements (NREs).

These results suggest that Nef downmodulates LTR activation without significantly inhibiting the capacity of T cells to respond to immunological activations.

The second abnormality in kappa B-binding activity in T cells from these patients is that RelA, a member of the Rel homology family which is part of the normal NF-kappa B complex, was not induced in the nucleus following activation.

Western blotting analysis did not detect any RelA in nuclear extracts either before or after stimulation of T cells.

The activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) in intact cells is mechanistically not well understood.

In HeLa cells as well as in B cells, TNF-alpha rapidly induced nuclear translocation primarily of p50-p65, but not of c-rel.

Surprisingly, even p65, but not c-rel, was phosphorylated after induction in vivo, suggesting that TNF-alpha selectively activates only specific NF-kappa B heteromers and that modifications regulate not only I kappa B molecules but also NF-kappa B molecules.

Most of these cells have rearranged their heavy-chain locus but not their light chain genes, suggesting that an active v-abl protein interferes with this differentiation step.

These increases occur in the absence of protein synthesis but are dependent on inactivation of the v-abl protein tyrosine kinase.

In contrast, TPCK and TLCK did not block induction of an immediate-early gene encoding the transcription factor, Egr-1.

&quot;Plus&quot; clones replicated the virus efficiently, whereas &quot;minus&quot; clones did not.

These specific proteases are coordinately expressed and were present exclusively in the minus U937 clones, but not in the plus clones, as demonstrated in the case of cathepsin G.

To gain further insight into the molecular mechanisms that control tal-1 expression, we investigated tal-1 chromatin structure in erythroid/megakaryocytic cell lines and in T-cell lines either with or without tal-1 rearrangements.

Tal-1 transcription was shown to be monoallelic in Jurkat, a T-cell line that expresses tal-1 in the absence of apparent genomic alteration of the locus.

HS II was weak in hematopoietic cell lines, absent in Hela, and greatly enhanced in Jurkat, suggesting that this region might be implicated in the cis-activation of tal-1 promoter 1b in this cell line.

This role for c-Myc in apoptosis is now confirmed in studies using a dominant negative form of its heterodimeric binding partner, Max, which we show here inhibits activation-induced apoptosis.

Further, coexpression of a reciprocally mutant Myc protein capable of forming functional heterodimers with the mutant Max can compensate for the dominant negative activity and restore activation-induced apoptosis.

Trans-activation of the TP1 promoter and of the BamHI C promoter has already been investigated in detail and appears to be mediated via protein-protein interactions and not by direct binding of EBNA-2 type A (of EBV type 1) to the DNA.

No significant differences between EBNA-2-positive and EBNA-2-negative nuclear extracts could be seen in the gel retardation assay under conditions that clearly showed binding of EBNA-2A to the TP1 promoter.

Promoter constructs with mutations in these sequence elements were no longer expressed specifically in monocytes.

Furthermore, multimerized region II sequence elements enhanced the activity of a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter in monocytic cells but not other cell types tested.

One of the Drosophila sequences, ttk, is a developmental control gene, while a second does not contain a zinc finger region but encodes a structure important in oocyte development.

Insertion of this chimeric promoter (ISG15 LTR) upstream of the human IFNA2 gene directed high levels of IFN synthesis in Tat-expressing cells, while this promoter was not responsive to tumor necrosis factor alpha-mediated activation.

Virus isolated from IFNA-producing cells was able to replicate in the U937 cells but did not replicate efficiently in U937 cells transduced with the IFNA gene.

However, PDTC failed to inhibit the endonuclease activity contained in the whole cell lysates.

Pretreatment of HL-60 cells or thymocytes with 100-500 microM OP for 2 hr, but not 10-60 mM NAC, suppressed subsequent occurrence of apoptosis induced by etoposide.

In this paper, we report that cross-linking of CD28 (but not CD2, CD5, LFA-1, or CD7) leads to an elevation of c-jun mRNA, with only minimal activation of c-fos expression.

CD28-dependent induction of c-jun expression requires protein tyrosine kinase activity, but does not depend on activation of a phorbol ester-responsive protein kinase C or elevation of cytosolic calcium.

Furthermore, CD28-dependent elevation of c-jun mRNA does not appear to be mediated at the level of mRNA stability.

A mechanism is suggested whereby expression of c-jun and junB, in the absence of members of the fos family, can prevent inappropriate activation of T cells caused by ligation of CD28 in the absence of a specific antigenic stimulus.

In such cells, DNA binding activity of NF-kappa B can be detected without intentional stimulation.

By contrast, treatment of cells with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) will only block LPS-induced NF-kappa B, but not the constitutive binding protein.

Using LPS-free and serum-free conditions, constitutive NF-kappa B can be detected in different cell lines of the monocytic lineage (HL60, U937, THP-1, Mono Mac 1 and Mono Mac 6), but not in Molt 4 T cells or K562 stem cells.

When ordered according to stage of maturation, the amount of constitutive NF-kappa B was not increased in more mature cell lines.

Furthermore, when inducing differentiation in Mono Mac 6 cells, with vitamin D3, no change in constitutive or inducible NF-kappa B can be detected.

Constitutive NF-kappa B was not maintained by autocrine action of cytokines TNF, interleukin 6, interleukin 10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor or macrophage colony-stimulating factor, since neutralizing antibodies did not reduce constitutive DNA-binding activity.

Furthermore, blockade of prostaglandin or leukotriene biosynthesis did not affect constitutive NF-kappa B.

We demonstrate in a variety of cell types, including lymphocytes and endometrial stroma, that Pit-1 is not involved in the regulation of dPRL promoter/reporter gene constructs carrying 3 kb 5&apos;-flanking DNA.

Our experiments also show that activated PR does not confer direct transcriptional control on the dPRL promoter.

When we compared the activity of the transfected dPRL promoter in PRL-secreting and nonsecreting lymphoid cells, we found that the 3 kb 5&apos;-flanking region of the dPRL promoter did not contain elements restricting expression to only those lymphocytes that produce PRL but allowed expression of fusion reporter genes irrespective of the status of the endogenous PRL gene.

This was in sharp contrast to endometrial cells where 3 kb 5&apos;-flanking DNA conferred strong transcriptional activation on the dPRL promoter in decidualized endometrial stromal cells actively secreting PRL, but did not allow transcription in undifferentiated non-PRL-secreting endometrial stromal cells.

Activation of the dPRL promoter construct in these undifferentiated cells could however be induced by the addition of cAMP, in the absence of progesterone, suggesting that a signal transduced through the cAMP signaling pathway is a primary inducer of decidual PRL gene expression.

Although both kinases participate in regulating cell growth, there was no detectable activation of pp70S6K during TPA- or okadaic acid-induced monocytic differentiation.

Moreover, rapamycin, an inhibitor of pp70S6K activation, had no effect on induction of EGR-1 expression.

In contrast, analysis of pp90rsk activity by phosphorylation of a peptide derived from S6 protein demonstrated stimulation of this kinase in TPA-treated U-937, and not TUR, cells.

Addition of rIL-2 fully restored the proliferative response and partially restored the production of IL-4 and IL-5, but not that of other cytokines.

Interestingly, PGE2 or di-butyryl (Bt2)cAMP abolished the binding of NF-kappa B (p50/p65) heterodimer to the kappa B sequence in cells stimulated with anti-CD3 mAb but not with PMA/A23187.

It seems therefore that PGE2, by elevating cAMP levels, interferes with the activation pathway for NF-kappa B but not for NF-AT, AP-1 or CLE0 binding protein.

Long-term inositol phosphate release, but not tyrosine kinase activity, correlates with IL-2 secretion and NF-AT induction in anti-CD3-activated peripheral human T lymphocytes.

Although many second messengers have been shown to be necessary and sufficient for T cell activation in a number of model systems, the rate-limiting step in peripheral T cells has not been demonstrated.

To model effective versus ineffective CD3-mediated stimulation in peripheral T cells, we used two anti-CD3 mAbs that differ in their ability to stimulate purified T cells: OKT3, which causes early second messenger generation but is unable to activate T cells without a second signal, and 64.1, which stimulates T cell proliferation on its own.

Thus, NF-AT induction and IL-2 secretion were correlated with the levels of inositol phosphate release but not with gross levels of tyrosine kinase activity induced late following the response.

Positive and negative regulation of IL-2 gene expression: role of multiple regulatory sites.

The results of this study suggest that the NFAT (-276 to -261), the distal octamer (-256 to -248) and the proximal octamer (-75 to -66) sites not only act as enhancers of IL-2 gene transcription in the presence of cellular stimulation, but also have a silencing effect on IL-2 gene expression in resting cells.

Furthermore, cyclosporin A, but not rapamycin, blocked the synergistic induction of IL-8 expression achieved with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 costimulation.

These results indicate that a component or components of NF-AT have the potential to reconstitute NF(P), whereas NF-kappa B alone does not account for NF(P) in Jurkat crude extract.

The two human GATA3 zinc fingers are encoded by two separate exons highly conserved with those of GATA1, but no other structural homologies between these two genes can be found.

Cotransfection of NF-kappa B (p50/p65)- or AP-1 (c-Jun/c-Fos)- expression vectors into Jurkat cells with a luciferase reporter containing the GM-CSF promoter did not stimulate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter.

In EMSAs, NF(P) binding was inhibited by the unlabeled NF-AT binding site but not by the unlabeled AP1 binding site and purified NF-AT contained an activity that bound to the P sequence.

Unlike NF-AT, NF(P) does not contain AP1 as its DNA binding component.

Pretreatment of cells with protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors and the dominant negative allele of c-Raf-1 (Raf 301) inhibited I kappa B alpha degradation, NF-kappa B binding, and transactivation of kappa B reporter constructs by hypoxia.

In comparison to other activators of NF-kappa B such as phorbol myristate acetate or tumor necrosis factor, we did not detect changes in the tyrosine phosphorylation status of I kappa B alpha following treatment with either of these agents.

In most HIV-1 isolates in which this PU box was not conserved, it was replaced by a binding site for the related factor Ets1.

We found that transactivation of the HIV-1 LTR by v-src was more sensitive to mutations of the proximal, rather than the distal, kappa B element.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) negative factor (Nef) has been shown to down-regulate the transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in vitro.

Stimulation of T cells with tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1, or lipopolysaccharide resulted in the recruitment of transcriptional factors to a similar level whether or not the cells expressed the nef gene.

On the other hand, stimulation of T cells by mitogens or antibodies to the T-cell receptor (TCR)-CD3 complex resulted in the down-regulation of transcriptional factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in cells expressing the nef gene compared with cells not expressing the nef gene.

Because the Nef protein does not affect the surface expression of the CD3-TCR complex, we conclude that the Nef protein down-regulates the transcriptional factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in T cells in vitro through an effect on the TCR-dependent signal transduction pathway.

NF-kappa B activation by TNF alpha was not correlated with cell differentiation or proliferation.

In a NGF-responsive rat pheochromocytoma cell line, PC12, PMA activated NF-kappa B, whereas NGF did not.

In other neuroblastoma cell lines, such as SK-N-Be(2), the lack of PMA induction of differentiation was correlated with the lack of NF-kappa B activation.

NF-kappa B was not activated by retinoic acid, which induced morphological differentiation of all the neuroblastoma cell lines used in the present study.

Thus, NF-kappa B activation was not required for neuroblastoma cell differentiation.

Furthermore, the results obtained with TNF alpha proved that NF-kappa B activation was not sufficient for induction of neuroblastoma differentiation.

Although these heterodimers do not recognize a classical thyroid hormone response element (TRE) characterized by direct repeat separated by four nucleotides (DR+4), PPAR behaves as a dominant negative regulator of thyroid hormone (TH) action.

However, a TH-dependent positive effect is elicited by selective interaction of the THR beta-PPAR but not the THR alpha-PPAR heterodimer with a novel TRE (DR+2).

Ii kappa B-1 is a positive regulatory element in B-cell lines and in the Ii-expressing T-cell line, H9, but acts as a negative regulatory element in myelomonocytic and glia cell lines.

In vivo protein-DNA contacts are detectable at Ii kappa B-1 in cell lines in which this site is functional as either a positive or negative regulator.

Electrophoretic mobility supershift assays determine that members of the NF-kappa B/Rel family of transcription factors can bind to this site in vitro and that DNA-binding complexes that contain p50, p52, p65, and cRel correlate with positive regulation whereas the presence of p50 correlates with negative regulation.

Ii kappa B-2 is a site of positive regulation in B-cell lines and a site of negative regulation in H9 T cells, myelomonocytic, and glial cell lines.

Again, in vitro supershift studies indicate that the presence of p50, p52, p65, and cRel correlates with positive function whereas the presence of only p50 and p52 correlates with negative function.

Nuclei from GATA-1- mutant embryonic stem cells can still be reprogrammed to express their globin genes in erythroid heterokaryons, indicating that de novo induction of GATA-1 is not required for globin gene activation following cell fusion.

Although resting tonsillar B cells did not express VDR mRNA, activation of these cells with interleukin-4 induced VDR in the absence of exogenously supplemented 1 alpha,25-(OH)2D3.

1 alpha,25-(OH)2D3 inhibited CD23 expression in U937 cells, yet failed to modulate CD23 expression in B cells.

Furthermore, 1 alpha,25-(OH)2D3 induced 24-hydroxylase mRNA expression and metabolic activity in both U937 cells and lectin-activated T cells, yet failed to induce 24-hydroxylase mRNA or its metabolic activity in B cells.

One 63-kDa isoform, termed I kappa B gamma-1, which lacks 59 amino acids C-terminal to ankyrin repeat 7, has a novel 35-amino acid C terminus encoded by an alternative reading frame of the p105 gene.

A 55-kDa isoform, I kappa B gamma-2, lacks the 190 C-terminal amino acids of p70I kappa B gamma.

The absence in I kappa B gamma-1 and I kappa B gamma-2 of a protein kinase A site whose phosphorylation modulates p70I kappa B gamma inhibitory activity suggests that alternative RNA splicing may be used to generate I kappa B gamma isoforms that respond differently to intracellular signals.

Recent reports demonstrated that ionizing radiation in the dose range of 2-50 Gy results in expression of NF-kappa B in human KG-1 myeloid leukemia cells and human B-lymphocyte precursor cells; the precise mechanism involved and the significance are not yet known.

Inhibition of cytokine production was gene selective and not due to general effects on protein synthesis.

Much higher concentrations of other antioxidants--including ascorbic acid, trolox, alpha-tocopherol, butylated hydroxytoluene, and the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton--did not affect the production of these cytokines.

The active compounds did not inhibit IL-1-induced production of IL-6 in fibroblasts, showing the cell selectivity of the effect.

THP decreased the concentration of the transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 detected in nuclear extracts of PBMC cultured in the presence or absence of LPS.

The novel astrocyte-derived kappa B-binding activity is retained on an HIV-1 Tat affinity column, while prototypical NF-kappa B from Jurkat T cells is not.

The activity of constructs containing 5&apos; deletion mutants of the alpha 4 gene promoter was compared in transfection assays into cell lines that express alpha 4 and cell lines that do not.

The sequence between position -42 and -76 base pairs (bp) was required for efficient transcription in cells that express alpha 4, but it showed no activity in HeLa cells, which do not express alpha 4.

Deletion of the 5&apos;-most Ets site had no effect on binding to GABP alpha/GABP beta, but it eliminated a.

We conclude that although neither of the two 5&apos;-most Ets sites alone binds nuclear protein, they appear to act as modulators which control the pattern of Ets proteins that bind the alpha 4 gene promoter.

In vitro binding studies demonstrated that the TF site bound translated c-Rel and p65 homodimers but not p50/p65 heterodimers or p50 homodimers.

In fact, under low-ionic-strength conditions, the TF complex did not migrate with translated p50/p65 dimers but instead comigrated with c-Rel/p65 dimers.

Antibodies against the NF-kappa B and Rel proteins and UV cross-linking studies revealed the presence of c-Rel and p65 and the absence of p50 in the TF complex and further showed that c-Rel/p65 heterodimers selectively bound to the TF kappa B-like site.

The NF-kappa B site at positions -206 to -195 of the IL-2 promoter was required but not sufficient for the Tat effect.

Although little information as to what signal transduction pathways mediate NF-kappa B activation in monocytes-macrophages is available, our previous work indicated that classical protein kinase C (PKC) isoenzymes were not involved in the HIV-mediated NF-kappa B activation.

In addition, cotransfection of a negative dominant molecule of PKC-zeta (PKC-zeta mut) with NF-kappa B-dependent reporter genes selectively inhibits the HIV- but not phorbol myristate acetate- or lipopolysaccharide-mediated activation of NF-kappa B.

A variety of other cells, including transformed erythroid precursors, do not have IBR but a factor referred to as IBF (68 to 70 kDa) that recognizes the same IBR sites.

In contrast, protein kinase C stimulation or RelA overexpression does not affect the activity of a human IL4 promoter containing a mouse P sequence, which is a higher-affinity site for NF-ATp and a lower-affinity site for RelA.

This protein-protein interaction does not require the simultaneous binding of Oct proteins to DNA, and high resolution footprinting of the Oct-DNA interaction reveals that binding of BOB.1/OBF.1 to Oct1 or Oct2 does not alter the interaction with DNA.

BOB.1/OBF.1 can efficiently activate octamer-dependent promoters in fibroblasts; however, it fails to stimulate octamer-dependent enhancer activity.

Consistent with the failure of full-length BOB.1/OBF.1 to stimulate octamer-dependent enhancer elements in non B cells, the GAL4 fusions likewise only stimulate from a promoter-proximal position.

Although IL-10 alone did not induce HIV-1 replication, in the presence of TNF-alpha, IL-10 markedly enhanced virion production from a chronically infected promonocytic cell line (U1) and in acutely infected monocyte-derived macrophages.

Northern blot analysis as well as Ab blocking and cytokine secretion studies indicated that the induction of either endogenous TNF-alpha or IL-10 was not involved in the cooperativity, nor was an up-regulation of TNF-alpha receptors.

The human B29 gene lacks either a TATA or a CAAT box and transcription is initiated at multiple sites.

Instead, the BCS stimulated transcription by counteracting 5&apos; negative regulatory DNA sequences that block the activity of the B29 minimal promoter in its absence.

These findings indicate that B29 gene expression is controlled by the complex interplay of positive and negative regulatory elements.

Inhibition of NF-AT signal transduction events by a dominant-negative form of calcineurin.

An inhibitory, &quot;dominant-negative,&quot; form of the calcineurin catalytic (A) subunit was prepared, which lacks the calmodulin-binding domain, autoinhibitory domain and most of its catalytic core but possesses the regulatory (B) subunit binding domain.

Anti-TNF-alpha antibody but not anti-IL-1 beta antibody strongly inhibited both the induction of HIV-1-LTR-driven transcription and the induction of NF-kappa B by Fc gamma R cross-linking.

Our studies provide an explanation for a previous observation that TCRG mRNA levels, but not mRNA levels for T cell receptor alpha and -beta, are increased by ionomycin treatment.

A mutant Tax protein deficient in transactivation of genes by the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB pathway was unable to induce transcriptional activity of IL-1alpha promoter-CAT constructs, but was rescued by exogenous provision of p65/p50 NF-kappaB.

By contrast, AM580 is not effective as ATRA in modulating the expression of these differentiation markers in the HL-60 cell line and in freshly isolated granulocytes obtained from the peripheral blood of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients during the stable phase of the disease.

The work reported here resolves, at the level of gene regulation, the controversy as to whether or not human monocytes/macrophages can produce nitric oxide (NO) when stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), with or without co-stimulation by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma).

Two explanations for hyporesponsiveness of the human iNOS promoter to LPS ± IFN-gamma were found: (1) multiple inactivating nucleotide substitutions in the human counterpart of the enhancer element that has been shown to regulate LPS/IFN-gamma induced expression of the mouse iNOS gene; and (2) and absence of one or more nuclear factors in human macrophages (e.g., an LPS-inducible nuclear factor-kappa B/Rel complex), that is (are) required for maximal expression of the gene.

These foci, which were preferentially found adjacent to nucleoli or at the nuclear periphery, did not represent sites of active transcription or binding of GATA-1 to consensus sites in the beta-globin loci.

The GATA-1 nuclear bodies differed from previously described nuclear structures and there was no co-localization with nuclear antigens involved in RNA processing or other ubiquitous (Spl, c-Jun and TBP) or haemopoietic (NF-E2) transcription factors.

A proportion of HIV-infected individuals experience episodes of localized or systemic bacterial infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria.

Many of the clinical side effects of these infections are associated with the production of proinflammatory cytokines, which are induced primarily by LPS, a constituent of the bacterial cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria.

Costimulation of U1 cells with LPS plus GM-CSF resulted in the accumulation of steady-state levels of HIV RNA; however, only a weak induction of HIV long terminal repeat-driven transcription, which was not associated with the activation of the cellular transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B, was noted.

Costimulation of cells with LPS plus GM-CSF induced the production of proinflammatory cytokines, IL-8, IL-1 beta and IL-6, but not TNF-alpha.

Both primary activation, with phytohemagglutinin or antibodies to CD3, and costimulation, provided by pairs of CD2 antibodies or B7-positive (B cells) or B7-negative (endothelial) accessory cells, are mediated through the same cis-elements.

Nuclear factors from unstimulated, but not from activated cells, bound a site, META(D-), adjacent to META(D+).

Authentic NFAT and NF-kappaB targets did not compete for the META(D+) binding factor(s).

The SV40 core sequence competed for META(D+) binding factors, but META(D+) failed to compete for the complexes obtained with the SV40 probe.

The regulation of collagenase expression is cell-type specific; bacterial LPS and zymosan, a yeast cell wall derivative, are potent inducers of collagenase expression in macrophages, but do not alter fibroblast collagenase expression.

Since promoter elements controlling collagenase transcription in monocytic cells have not been previously defined, we sought to delineate responsive cis-acting elements of the collagenase promoter in transiently transfected human (U937) and murine (J774) monocytic cell lines.

Mutagenesis of the activator protein-1 [AP-1] site at -72 abolished basal promoter activity and LPS/zymosan inducibility, while mutagenesis of an NF-kappaB-like site at -20 to -10 had no effect.

These data indicate that, in contrast to most LPS effects, AP-1, but not nuclear factor-kappaB, mediates LPS induction of collagenase transcription in macrophagelike cells.

The role of alterations of the MTS1 tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 9p21, which encodes p16, the inhibitor of cyclin-dependent-kinase-4 and 6, in tumorigenesis is not yet clear.

Although a role of p16 in this regulation has been presumed, there is no proof so far that loss of this tumor suppressor gene really affects E2F-mediated regulations.

We investigated the regulation of thymidine kinase in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated normal human lymphocytes and in the p16-negative human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines, MOLT-4 and CEM.

Transient expression of p16 in normal human lymphocytes caused arrest in G1, but was without effect on the cell growth of MOLT-4 and CEM cells, although all of them express functional retinoblastoma protein.

Mice lacking Rel are defective in mitogenic activation of B and T lymphocytes and display impaired humoral immunity.

In contrast, anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 stimulated Rel-/- T cells, which fail to proliferate, make little or no detectable cytokines.

Exogenous IL-2, which restitutes the proliferative response of the anti-CD3- and anti-CD28-treated Rel-/- T cells, restores production of IL-5, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma, but not IL-3 and GM-CSF expression to approximately normal levels.

We now report that galectin-3 is abundantly expressed in a number of human T lymphotropic virus (HTLV)-I-infected human T cell lines, including F6T, HUT 102, K3T, MT-2, and SLB-I, but is not expressed in non-HTLV-I-infected T cell lines such as Jurkat, CEM, and MOLT-4.

Induction of NF-MATp35 was shown to depend on de novo protein synthesis and was restricted to T cells that received a mitogenic combination of T cell stimuli, not necessarily including CD28 signaling.

Nonmitogenic T cell stimulation did not result in appearance of NF-MATp35.

When unstimulated HeLa cells are ruptured in hypotonic buffer without salt or detergent, immunoadsorption of either STAT1 or STAT2 from the resulting cytosol yields coimmunoadsorption of the other STAT protein.

This work aimed to ascertain the role of kappaB-responsive elements of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) enhancer not only in early initiation but also in long-term maintenance of proviral transcription in cells of the monocytic lineage.

Efficient transcription and replication of simian immunodeficiency virus in the absence of NF-kappaB and Sp1 binding elements.

Reversions or additional mutations were not detected in the U3 and R regions of proviral DNA from CEMxl74 cells infected with the SIVmac239 mutants.

Analysis of long terminal repeat-driven secreted alkaline phosphatase activity in transient assays showed that, unlike human immunodeficiency virus type 1, the SIV long terminal repeat possesses an enhancer region just upstream of the NF-kappaB element which maintains significant levels of basal transcription in the absence of NF-kappaB and Sp1 sites.

However, it remains unclear how this viral protein induces a persistent rather than transient NF-kappaB response.

BCR-induced increases in CD44 mRNA expression and transcription levels are shown to occur in EGR1-expressing but not in nonexpressing subclones of the B-cell line WEHI-231.

A protein footprint was visible over this region of the c-myb 5&apos; flanking sequence in activated T cells but not in unactivated T cells.

An electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) with nuclear extract from activated T cells and an oligonucleotide of this binding site demonstrated a new protein-DNA complex, referred to as CMAT for c-myb in activated T cells; this complex was not present in unactivated T cells.

In addition, an antibody against NFAT did not cross-react with the CMAT protein.

CNI-1493 blocked neither the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced increases in the expression of TNF mRNA nor the translocation of nuclear factor NF-kappa B to the nucleus in macrophages activated by 15 min of LPS stimulation, indicating that CNI-1493 does not interfere with early NF-kappa B-mediated transcriptional regulation of TNF.

Specific DNA protein complex formation was observed with the probes from the beta-casein and IRF-1 gene promoters, but not with the ISRE oligonucleotide probe, when cell extracts from acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were investigated.

Since the cells were not treated with cytokines before the nuclear proteins were extracted, we conclude that these factors are constitutively activated in vivo.

We have shown that 1-(5-chloronaphthalene-1-sulfonyl)-1H-hexahydro-1,4-diazepine hydrochloride (ML-9), an inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase, induces differentiation of monocytoid leukemia cell lines U937 and THP-1 but not of myeloblastic leukemic ML-1 cell or erythroleukemia K562 cells.

ML-9 had little or no effect on the morphology of U937 cells but increased the expression of monocyte-macrophage lineage-associated surface antigen, CD14, to some extent.

Irreversible terminal differentiation induced by VD3 is associated with down regulation of the expression of c-myc and upregulation of the expression of c-fos and c-jun, but ML-9 did not affect the expression of these oncogenes appreciably.

it became irreversible, however, upon simultaneous treatment with dexamethasone and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), which did not induce differentiation of U937 cells but caused growth arrest of the cells in the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle.

LPS-stimulated monocytes showed an increased expression of p105 mRNA, the precursor of the p50 subunit of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B), while no effect was noticed on the expression of p65 mRNA.

In contrast, IFN-gamma priming did not affect the expression of p105 transcripts but enhanced the expression of p65 mRNA (two-fold).

However, the combined stimulation did not result in enhanced p50 and p65 protein expression.

The effects of IFN-gamma on the transcription factors were specific, since no change was observed in the expression of NF-IL-6 or I kappa B alpha, the inhibitor of NF-kappa B.

Most studies on the expression of these proteins in relation to the cell cycle have been performed at the mRNA level, and therefore do not give direct information about the presence of the proteins during the cell cycle.

We found nuclear p62c-fos, p39c-jun, and AP-1 binding activity throughout the cell cycle both in HL60 cells and in PHA-stimulated PBL, and we postulate that these proteins are required throughout the cell cycle and not transiently in the G0 to G1 transition as previous mRNA studies have indicated.

Nuclei of unstimulated PBL from different donors expressed p62c-fos and p39c-jun, but AP-1 was not detected in the majority of samples.

However, no cytoplasmic p62c-fos was detected in unstimulated PBL, although in some cases cytoplasmic p39c-jun was detected, suggesting that subcellular compartmentalization of these proteinsmay occur under certain circumstances.

H2O2-induced NF-kappaB activation in Wurzburg cells was not influenced by the presence of extracellular EGTA but was totally inhibited in cells that were loaded with esterified EGTA.

In Jurkat cells that are not sensitive to H2O2-induced NF-kappaB activation, H2O2 potentiated NF-kappaB activation in the presence of sustained high [Ca2+]i following thapsigargin treatment.

We found that this latently infected cell line with heat shock at 42 degrees C for 2 h resulted in a high level of HIV-1 production without addition of any cytokines.

Although the mechanism of HIV-1 activation with heat shock has not been fully elucidated yet, it is presumed PKC plays an important role in HIV-1 activation.

The expression of p45 mRNA in the neutrophils declined rapidly after transfer of the cells to in vitro culture and G-CSF could not sustain the expression from the down-regulation, suggesting the E2 may also participate in the regulation of neutrophil-specific gene expression.

The processing of p105 occurs constitutively in vivo but can be markedly enhanced by various cellular activation agents, although the underlying regulatory mechanism is not yet clear.

These findings suggest that the processing of p105 is subject to negative regulation by the various NF-kappaB subunits.

However, the inducible degradation of p105 is not coupled with the generation of p50.

In addition to finding hLH-2 expression in all cases of CML, expression was observed in lymphoid malignancies and myeloid cell lines, but not in primary cases of acute myelogenous leukaemia.

The role of hLH-2 in the development or progression of leukaemia is not known.

We show that both delta383 and delta99 specifically enhance expression of cat for plasmids containing a human adult globin (HBB) promoter, whereas expression of similar constructs using human fetal (A gamma-) globin (HBG1) or simian virus 40 (SV40) promoters is not enhanced.

When the HTLV-1 tax gene was expressed or phorbol myristake acetate-A23187 stimulation was used, ICSAT expression was induced in Jurkat cells which otherwise do not express ICSAT.

Although GM-CSF does not appear to be essential for normal hemopoiesis, overexpression of GM-CSF has been implicated in the pathogenesis of some diseases such as myeloid leukemia and chronic inflammation.

Finally, GM3 greatly reduced the concentration of endogenous GM-CSF mRNA induced by different stimuli in Jurkat T cells but did not affect interleukin 3 mRNA levels in the same cells.

Unlike many hematopoietin receptors, the IL-10R did not detectably activate STAT5.

This regulation could not be appreciably modified by enhanced expression of STAT proteins.

Finally, we show that the B cell coactivator OBF-1/Bob1/OCA-B is only expressed in B cells and not in myeloid cells, and that OBF-1/Bob1/OCA-B can transactivate the PU.1 promoter in HeLa and myeloid cells.

Although GABP expression is not restricted to the hematopoietic lineage, its interaction with other specific factors may contribute to the tissue-specific expression of the gammac gene.

Transient expression of the luciferase reporter gene linked to serially deleted sequences of the 5&apos;-flanking region of the IL-9 gene has revealed several positive and negative regulatory elements involved in the basal and inducible expression of the IL-9 gene in C5MJ2 cells.

However, some peculiar differences were observed between the TEC, either IFN-gamma-induced or not, and the constitutive B cells.

DeltaSpi-B product was not able to bind DNA and was recovered in cytoplasmic cellular extracts.

The IL-10 effect on c-fos expression was not blocked by polymyxin B.

The inhibition is exerted specifically on the NF-kappa B/Rel activation induced by mAb OKT3, and not that produced by PMA.

Soluble factors do not appear to be involved in the mechanism of inhibition.

On the other hand, the up-regulation of CD80 Ag, found on monocytes obtained from PBMC incubated with OKT3, is not detected after addition of IL-10, and the anti-CD28 mAb CLB-CD28/1 restores the NF-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in IL-10-inhibited lymphocytes.

Therefore, the NF-kappa B/Rel inhibition might be ascribed to a lack of cooperation between accessory cells and T lymphocytes, resulting from down-regulation of a costimulatory molecule, such as CD80, produced by IL-10 on activated monocytes.

Cytotoxicity was not demonstrated at these concentrations.

Add-back experiments with either cytokines (IL-2 or IL-6), LTB4 or conditioned media failed to restore the proliferative response in the presence of tepoxalin.

In comparison, isolated nuclei of human lymphocytes in which no need for the expression of this gene exists, show barely hybridization signals.

Correspondingly, RNase treatment had no effect on hybridization pattern at all.

Alpha 4 beta 1 (CD49d/CD29) integrin costimulation of human T cells enhances transcription factor and cytokine induction in the absence of altered sensitivity to anti-CD3 stimulation.

alpha 4 beta 1 ligation alone had no effect on transcription factor binding.

In contrast to freshly isolated T cells, in vitro-cultured T cells did not require costimulation for cytokine secretion in response to anti-CD3 alone.

Therefore, costimulation by alpha 4 beta 1 ligands was not due to stabilization of the interaction of the cells with its substrate.

Expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) protease in cultured cells leads to apoptosis, preceded by cleavage of bcl-2, a key negative regulator of cell death.

The age-related decline in induction of NF kappa B could not be attributed to alteration in the composition of subunits, p50 and p65 were found to be the predominant subunits of induced NF kappa B in T cells from young as well as elderly donors.

Tax does not bind directly to DNA but rather deregulates the activity of cellular transcription factors.

The cytokines IFN-beta, IFN-gamma, IL-4, and LPS, although unable to induce sialoadhesin expression by themselves, were able to enhance GC-mediated induction of sialoadhesin.

The regulation of sialoadhesin expression was mediated by the GC receptor, and not by mineralocorticoid receptor, as shown by inhibition experiments with specific antagonists.

The effects of selenium were specific for NF-kappa B, since the activity of the transcription factor AP-1 was not suppressed.

In addition, inhibition of mRNA synthesis with actinomycin D indicated that DOX induced an increased stability of PBGD and GATA-1 mRNAs, whereas ACLA did not affect the half-lives of these mRNAs.

Finally, GATA-1 protein level was shown to be increased in ACLA-treated but not in DOX-treated cells.

To overcome this problem, we have exploited the observation that activated human T cell blasts can be stimulated via the CD28 surface molecule in the absence of antigenic challenge; thus, we have been able to observe the response of normal T cells to CD28 activation in isolation.

Using this system, we observed that CD28 stimulation by B7-transfected CHO cells induced a proliferative response in T cells that was not accompanied by measurable IL-2 production.

However, subsequent analysis of transcription factor generation revealed that B7 stimulation induced both activator protein-1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) complexes, but not NF-AT.

In contrast, engagement of the TCR by class II MHC/superantigen, either with or without CD28 ligation, resulted in the induction of NF-AT, AP-1, and NF-kappaB as well as IL-2 production.

This revealed that NF-kappaB generation was sensitive to chloroquine, an inhibitor of acidic sphingomyelinase, but not to the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor, wortmannin.

Second messenger up-regulation of androgen receptor gene transcription is absent in androgen insensitive human prostatic carcinoma cell lines, PC-3 and DU-145.

After 20 h of stimulation with 8-bromo-cAMP, AR mRNA was upregulated in LNCaP but not in either PC-3 or DU-145 cell lines.

CIF failed to inhibit several other enhancer elements.

IL-4 had no significant effect on HIV reverse transcription.

IL-13 had similar effects on CD11b and CD13, but no effect on CD26.

Hence, these cytokines do not simply enhance monocyte differentiation, but have complex and slightly divergent effects that impact on HIV replication probably through cell signaling pathways and nuclear factor-kappaB translocation.

CD15 cross-linking also concomitantly increased interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) mRNA, while no apparent change was observed in the levels of beta-actin mRNA, indicating specificity.

Nuclear extracts of anti-CD15 cross-linked cells demonstrated enhanced levels of the transcriptional factor activator protein-1, minimally changed nuclear factor-kappa B, and did not affect SV40 promoter specific protein-1.

V3-BH10, which consists of 42 amino acids and has a loop structure, suppressed IL-2-driven proliferation of all IL-2-dependent cells [Kit225, ED-40515(+), KT-3, 7-day PHA-blasts, and fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cells] tested, whereas it did not suppress the cell growth of IL-2-independent cell lines (Hut102, Molt-4, and Jurkat).

This suppressive effect was also seen in IL-2-driven cell growth of CD8-positive lymphocytes purified from 7-day PHA-blasts, indicating that CD4 molecules were not required for the suppression.

Neither chromatin condensation nor DNA fragmentation was detected in Kit225 cells cultured with V3-BH10 and IL-2.

V3-BH10 neither blocked radiolabeled IL-2 binding to IL-2 receptors nor affected tyrosyl phosphorylation of several cellular proteins (p120, p98, p96, p54, and p38), which is immediately induced by IL-2 stimulation.

However, V3-BH10 enhanced IL-2-induced mRNA expression of c-fos but not c-myc or junB.

On the other hand, FCM produced in the presence of indomethacin does not inhibit NF-kappaB activation by LPS.

IL-4 is secreted by activated Th2 but not Th1 cells and plays a major role in the immune response by modulating the differentiation of naive Th cells toward the Th2 phenotype.

In contrast, POS-1 was not found in nuclear extracts of human Th1 clones.

Inhibition of TNF-alpha production by THP-1-hGH-transfected cells cultured in the presence of LPS is dependent on a selective pathway, since no inhibition of TNF-alpha production was observed when cells were cultured in the presence of PMA.

The capacity of GH to inhibit LPS-induced TNF-alpha production by monocytes without altering other pathways leading to TNF-alpha production may be of potential relevance in septic shock, since GH is available for clinical use.

Whereas T cells from young subjects stimulated with cross-linked anti-CD3epsilon mAb OKT3 plus PMA or with the lectin PHA plus PMA demonstrated considerable increases in c-Fos protein expression, the expression of c-Fos but not c-Jun was markedly reduced in stimulated T cells from certain elderly subjects.

Interaction of transcription factors RFX1 and MIBP1 with the gamma motif of the negative regulatory element of the hepatitis B virus core promoter.

The negative regulatory element (NRE) of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) core promoter contains three subregions which act synergistically to suppress core promoter activity.

In the absence of a cloned MIBP1 gene for further studies, we hypothesize that RFX1 acts with MIBP1 to negatively regulate the core promoter activity through the NRE gamma site.

Using electrophoretic mobility shift analysis we demonstrated that the promoter region spanning base pairs -1 to -275, which contains several putative binding sites for transcription factors, is bound by nuclear factors Sp1 and IRBP but not by C/EBPs.

Analysis of the sequence immediately upstream from the transcription initiation site (TIS) showed no canonical TATA or CAAT elements, however an initiator element commonly found in TATA-less promoters encompassed the TIS.

Mutational analysis showed that optimal transcriptional activity required the GATA sequence at position -24, and gel-shift assays further showed that the GATA-2 transcription factor, but not GATA-1, bound to this region of the PECAM-1 promoter.

However, the NF-IL6 gene is expressed in a variety of nonmyeloid cell types and is strongly inducible in response to inflammatory stimuli, making it an unlikely candidate to have an exclusive role as a combinatorial differentiation switch during myelopoiesis in human cells.

The putative promoter area is similar to those of several other myeloid-cell-specific genes in that it contains no TATAAA box but has a number of purine-rich stretches with multiple sites for the factors of the Ets family of transcriptional regulators.

Cotransfection with a transdominant negative mutant of the NF-YA subunit abolishes the transcriptional activation by heme, indicating that NF-Y plays an essential role in this activation.

Characterization of a mutant cell line that does not activate NF-kappaB in response to multiple stimuli.

In this study, we have characterized a cellular mutant, the 70/Z3-derived 1.3E2 murine pre-B cell line, that does not activate NF-kappaB in response to several stimuli.

We demonstrate that upon stimulation by lipopolysaccharide, Taxol, phorbol myristate acetate, interleukin-1, or double-stranded RNA, I kappaB alpha is not degraded, as a result of an absence of induced phosphorylation on serines 32 and 36.

Neither a mutation in I kappaB alpha nor a mutation in p50 or relA, the two major subunits of NF-kappaB in this cell line, accounts for this phosphorylation defect.

Analysis of the redox status of 1.3E2 does not reveal any difference from wild-type 70Z/3.

We also report that the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-derived Tax trans-activator induces NF-kappaB activity in 1.3E2, suggesting that this viral protein does not operate via the defective pathway.

Finally, we show that two other I kappaB molecules, I kappaB beta and the recently identified I kappaB epsilon, are not degraded in the 1.3E2 cell line following stimulation.

Transcription mediated by NFAT is highly inducible in effector CD4+ T helper 2 (Th2) cells but not in Th1 cells.

In contrast to activated pTh cells, neither eTh1 nor eTh2 cells produced significant IL-2 upon stimulation, but the high levels of NFAT transcriptional activities directly correlate with the IL-4 production induced in response to antigen stimulation in eTh2 cells.

These data suggest that activated NFAT is involved in the effector function of eTh2 cells and that the failure of eTh1 cells to produce IL-4 in response to an antigen is due, at least partially, to a failure to induce high-level transcription of the IL-4 gene by NFAT.

HIV infection of fresh monocytes failed to induce p50/p65 as seen in MDMs.

Treatment of a T-lymphocytic cell line with micromolar concentrations of HOCl promoted the appearance of transcription factor NF-kappaB (the heterodimer p50/p65) in the nucleus of the cells, even in the absence of de novo protein synthesis.

The 5&apos;-positive regulatory unit, consisting of the promoter and the 5&apos; enhancer, is already active at the CD4-CD8-double-negative (DN) stage of development.

Altogether, the CD4 gene is regulated by several positive and negative regulatory mechanisms which come into play in a developmentally coordinated manner.

We found that in T cells, anti-CD3-induced c-Rel expression was blocked by PF, whereas the induction of other NF-kappaB family members was not significantly affected.

However, induction of NF-AT, which has the same signaling requirements as c-Rel induction, was not inhibited by PF.

Among genes that respond to these transcription factors, IL-2 mRNA induction was suppressed by PF, whereas IL-2R(alpha) chain mRNA induction was not affected.

In contrast with the observation in T cells, c-Rel induction was not blocked by PF in B cells.

A negative regulatory region containing a glucocorticosteroid response element (nGRE) in the human interleukin-1beta gene.

However, little is known about negative regulation of IL-1beta expression at the transcriptional level, which may play an important role in anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects.

We have identified a negative regulatory element located in the region between -685 and -395.

A consensus sequence for a negative glucocorticoid response element (nGRE) and a transcription activator protein-2 binding site were noted within this footprint.

Dexamethasone (10(-8) M) repressed chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) production by 75% in the wild-type fragment but not in a deletion mutant lacking the 19-bp site.

A protein of about 150 kD that bound to this negative regulatory sequence was identified by UV cross-linking.

This is the first description of a negative regulatory region responsive to glucocorticoids in a cytokine gene.

TRAMP-induced cell death is inhibited by an inhibitor of ICE-like proteases, but not by Bcl-2.

In addition, TRAMP does not appear to interact with any of the known apoptosis-inducing ligands of the TNF family.

By contrast, these effects were not observed upon pulse-treatment with 6 microM ICRF-193.

We have reported previously that a nuclear NF-kappa B activity was present in freshly extracted human thymocytes in the absence of in vitro treatment of these cells.

We generated a point mutant of ZEBRA, Z(S186A), that was not impaired in its ability to activate transcription; however, this mutation abolished its ability to initiate the viral lytic cascade.

The mutant, containing a serine-to-alanine substitution in the DNA-binding domain of the protein, bound to several known ZEBRA-binding sites and activated transcription from reporters bearing known ZEBRA-responsive promoters but did not disrupt latency in EBV-infected cell lines.

However, the NF-kappaB activation pathway involving the acidic sphingomyelinase of the endolysosomial membrane did not seem to participate in the LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation in U937 cells.

Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) plays a broad role in gene regulation, but it is not evident whether NF-kappa B acts as a messenger system for germline C epsilon transcription.

In contrast to the MF individuals where no effect was seen, transendothelial migration of 48-hr filarial antigen stimulated T-cells from LP individuals was significantly (P = 0.01) greater than migration of 48-hr media-stimulated T-cells.

A dominant-negative mutant of NF-kappaB p50 that binds DNA but fails to interact with Ets proteins inhibits the synergistic activation of the HIV-1 and HIV-2 enhancers by NF-kappaB (p50 + p65) and Ets-1, suggesting that physical interaction between Ets and NF-kappaB proteins is required for the transcriptional activity of the HIV-1 and HIV-2 enhancers.

In the tumor samples, expression of LAZ3/BCL6 was observed in 68% of all B cell NHL and none of the non-B lymphomas.

Hence, the expression of LAZ3/BCL6 does not correlate to malignancy, but reflects the origin of B cells from the germinal centers.

NF-AT and NF-kappaB were not significantly induced by IL-2 stimulation.

Oncogenic forms of NOTCH1 lacking either the primary binding site for RBP-Jkappa or nuclear localization sequences retain the ability to associate with RBP-Jkappa and activate transcription.

Unlike full-sized NOTCH1, two such truncated forms of the protein either lacking a major portion of the extracellular domain (DeltaE) or consisting only of the intracellular domain (ICN) were found to activate transcription in cultured cells, presumably through RBP-Jkappa response elements within DNA.

Unexpectedly, a second, stronger RBP-Jkappa-binding site, which lies within the intracellular domain close to the transmembrane region and significantly augments association with RBP-Jkappa, was not needed for oncogenesis or for transcriptional activation.

While ICN appeared primarily in the nucleus, DeltaE localized to cytoplasmic and nuclear membranes, suggesting that intranuclear localization is not essential for oncogenesis or transcriptional activation.

A novel genetic system to isolate a dominant negative effector on DNA-binding activity of Oct-2.

In gel mobility shift assays, hT86 attenuated the intensity of the retarded band composed of the octamer probe and Oct-2, suggesting a dominant negative effect on the DNA-binding activity of Oct-2.

A negative role for phosphoinositide 3-kinase in T-cell antigen receptor function.

BACKGROUND: A delicate balance between positive and negative regulatory mechanisms during T-cell activation determines the specificity and magnitude of an immune response.

Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) is activated by a diverse set of receptors that determine T-cell function, including the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR), the costimulatory receptor CD28, and negative regulators of T-cell activation such as CTLA-4.

RESULTS: Certain aspects of TCR responses such as the induction of transcriptional activity of AP1 and serum response factor were not affected by expression of the mutant forms of PI 3-kinase.

We found, however, that PI 3-kinase profoundly influenced the transactivation capacity of &apos;nuclear factor of activated T cells&apos; (NF-AT) elicited by the TCR: expression of an activated form of PI 3-kinase inhibited TCR-mediated NF-AT responses, whereas expression of a dominant negative mutant of PI 3-kinase potently enhanced TCR-controlled NF-AT induction.

These effects of PI 3-kinase were not mediated by previously identified PI 3-kinase effectors, such as protein kinase B, a positive regulator of PI 3-kinase, or the GTPase Rac, and are therefore likely to involve a novel, as yet unknown, effector molecule.

CONCLUSIONS: Our results establish that PI 3-kinase can both positively and negatively regulate T-cell function, and uncover a previously unrecognized function for PI 3-kinase in T cells as a selective negative regulator of TCR-signalling events and therefore as a determinant of T-cell homeostasis.

To assess whether this inhibition was mediated via modulation of the cellular transcription factor, NF-kappa B, we carried out gel shift analysis on nuclear extracts prepared under different conditions of cell stimulation in the presence or absence of ascorbate, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), or zidovudine (AZT).

In contrast, neither ascorbate nor AZT affected NF-kappa B activity under all three induction conditions in the ACH-2 cell line.

Ascorbate and AZT also had no effect on NF-kappa B activation following TNF-alpha- or PMA-induced stimulation of U1 promonocytic cells.

These results suggest that the molecular mechanism of HIV inhibition by ascorbate is not mediated via NF-kappa B inhibition, unlike that seen with other antioxidants.

Within the erythroid lineage, runt expression is biphasic, clearly present in the erythroblasts of early blood islands and of the fetal liver, but absent in the adult.

Cell-to-cell contact activation of NF-kappaB was only partially inhibited by 100 microM pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and was not correlated with a significant decrease of cellular inhibitor kappaB alpha.

NF-kappaB nuclear activation was not detectable before 1 h after cell contact and was dependent on protein synthesis.

HIV does not replicate in naive CD4 T cells stimulated with CD3/CD28.

In this report, we demonstrate that the T cell tropic strain of HIV, LAI, does not replicate in naive CD4 T cells stimulated by cross-linking CD3 and CD28.

Remixing of purified T cells showed that naive T cells do not suppress LAI replication in memory T cells and that memory T cells do not restore LAI expression in naive T cells.

The suppression of productive LAI replication in naive T cells is not due to differential expression of viral coreceptors, nor is it due to inhibition of activation of the important HIV transcription factors, nuclear factor-kappaB and activator protein-1.

Contrary to the results in Jurkat cells, PDTC did not inhibit tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced NF kappaB activation in astrocytes; instead PDTC itself induces NF kappaB activation in astrocytes, and this may be related to scavenging of endogenously produced NO by the PDTC iron complex.

NF kappaB activation in glia from mice lacking nNOS responds more rapidly to PDTC compared with astrocytes from wild-type mice.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2) promoter activity stimulated by cross-linking of CD2, TCR/CD3, and CD28 with antibodies was significantly reduced by transient expression of an Itk mutant lacking the kinase activity.

Although CD40 lacks intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, its ligation induces protein tyrosine phosphorylation, which is necessary for several CD40-mediated events.

The tumour associated cell surface antigen A6H is costimulatory for human CD4+ but not CD8+ T cells.

Unexpectedly, the CD8+ T-cell subpopulation failed to respond.

CD4+ T cells costimulated with the A6H mAb upregulated CD80, CD86, CD71, interleukin-2 (IL-2)R alpha, IL-2R beta and IL-2R gamma, while no corresponding up-regulation of these cell surface molecules was seen in CD8+ T cells.

Co-ligation of the A6H antigen and the CD3 complex induced expression of the transcription factor AP-1 in CD4+ T cells, whereas no increase in NF-kappa B and octamer-binding (Oct) proteins was seen compared to T cells stimulated with anti-CD3 alone.

Furthermore, no induction of AP-1 was seen in A6H costimulated CD8+ T cells.

Structure and function analysis of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen promoter: evidence for the role of Sp1 and not of c-Myb or PU.1 in myelomonocytic lineage-specific expression.

However, analysis of deletion mutants localized nearly all of the promoter activity to a short region (-73 to -16) that did not include the cluster of c-Myb sites.

Mutation of the PU.1 site did not significantly affect promoter activity.

Only a small region (-35 to +22) including the Sp1 element and transcription start site, but not the PU.1 site was footprinted.

Quantification of vitamin D receptor mRNA by competitive polymerase chain reaction in PBMC: lack of correspondence with common allelic variants.

To validate the method, we made use of earlier receptor binding studies indicating that normal human monocytes and activated, but not resting, lymphocytes expressed the VDR.

We conclude that VDR polymorphism does not affect the abundance of the VDR mRNA.

IFN-gamma-primed lung fibroblasts costimulate T lymphocyte proliferation utilizing CD40, but not the well-studied costimulatory molecules B7-1 and B7-2.

Triggering of HLA class II antigens by the anti-HLA-DR monoclonal antibody (mAb) L243 significantly (P &lt; 0.05) and differentially enhanced the release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) by the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cells Ri-I, Ci-I, and Sc-I, which are at a distinct stage of B-cell differentiation, and by the more mature Burkitt lymphoma cell Raji; in contrast, it did not induce TNF-alpha release by the pre-B leukemia cells Nalm-6 and BV173.

Secreted TNF-alpha mediated the enhancement of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) binding activity; in fact, the triggering of HLA-DR antigens in the presence of antihuman TNF-alpha-neutralizing antibodies did not upregulate NF-kappa B and AP-1.

In contrast, released TNF-alpha was not responsible for the homotypic aggregation of Ri-I, Ci-I, Sc-I, and Raji cells induced by mAb L243, and it did not affect the proliferation of B cells investigated.

Altogether, our data demonstrate that: (a) the ability of B cells to release TNF-alpha after triggering of HLA-DR antigens depends on their stage of differentiation; (b) levels of released TNF-alpha seem to correlate with the stage of B-cell maturation but do not correlate with the amounts of cell surface HLA-DR antigens; (c) secreted TNF-alpha regulates the levels of expression of NF-kappa B and AP-1 by an autocrine loop; and (d) intracellular signals mediating TNF-alpha release by B cells are distinct from those regulating homotypic aggregation and proliferation.

The increase in IL-6 luciferase activity occurs in the absence of the multiple response region, the area of the IL-6 promoter responsive to IL-1, TNF alpha, cyclic amp, and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.

In contrast, NK activity was not affected by pretreatment of the effector cells with the proteasome inhibitor N-acetyl-leu-leu-norleucinal which selectively inhibits NF-kappa B activation.

Homodimerization of the human interleukin 4 receptor alpha chain induces Cepsilon germline transcripts in B cells in the absence of the interleukin 2 receptor gamma chain.

Induction of Cepsilon germline transcripts by IL-4 in B cells that lack the gammac chain may involve signaling via the IL-13R.

The lack of steroid binding of HBD mutants with the Thr729-Leu765 sequence deleted [Jalaguier, Mesnier, Leger and Auzou (1996) J.Steroid Biochem.Mol.Biol.57, 43-50] supports this hypothesis.

A role in thymic maturation for factors of the NF-kappaB family has long been suspected, but not yet proven.

These data provide direct evidence for the involvement of NF-kappaB/Rel family proteins in late stages of T lymphocyte development, coincident with positive and negative selection.

The results demonstrate that alterations in NF kappaB family proteins, specifically the failure of p65 translocation to the nucleus, occur earlier and more frequently than the decrease in zeta-chain.

However, the experimentally derived B-lymphoblastoid cell line, clone 13, expresses high levels of HLADQ in the absence of HLA-DR and HLA-DP, despite its mapping by complementation analysis to this group.

It was possible that one of the clone 13 CIITA alleles bore a mutation that allowed HLA-DQ, but not HLA-DR or -DP transcription.

We report here that ectopic expression of CIITA cDNAs derived by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction from clone 13 do not restore expression of HLA-DQ in another CIITA-deficient cell line, RJ2.2.5.

In addition, no CIITA protein is detectable in clone 13 nuclear extracts.

Moreover, a CIITA protein in which both functional alpha-helices have been deleted displays a dominant negative phenotype.

CIITA is a positive regulator of class II major histocompatibility complex gene transcription that has been found to be defective in one of the five complementation groups of class II major histocompatibility complex-negative cell lines.

A TBP mutant defective in interaction with TBP-associated factor TAFII250 also failed to mediate transactivation through the CIITA activation domain.

Two of the genes defective in the five complementation groups identified in the class II-negative bare lymphocyte syndrome or corresponding laboratory mutants have been cloned.

The other, CIITA, encodes a large protein with a defined acidic transcriptional activation domain; this protein does not interact with DNA.

Furthermore, these plasmids were not active in RJ2.2.5, an in vitro mutagenized derivative of Raji in which both copies of CIITA are defective.

We suggest that HSF2-beta acts as a negative regulator of HSF2 activity during hemin-mediated erythroid differentiation of K562 cells.

It is not known whether and how glucocorticoids affect the function of the inflammatory infiltrate or why the disease persists subclinically despite chronic treatment.

Furthermore, studies carried out using H7, a protein kinase A/protein kinase C inhibitor, blocked c-fos induction, whereas no effect was observed with bisindolylmaleimide, a specific protein kinase C inhibitor.

In addition, dibutyryl cAMP inhibited cell growth in a dose-dependent manner, whereas histamine failed to affect proliferation and differentiation of U937 cells.

These results indicate that histamine activates several mechanisms involved in the induction of differentiation, such as cAMP and c-fos production, but fails to promote differentiation of U937 cells, apparently due to the rapid desensitization of H2 receptors.

Furthermore, we demonstrate that binding of several B cell-specific transcription factors, essential for IgH 3&apos; enhancer activity, is lacking, which may explain 3&apos; enhancer inactivity, although the binding of repressors cannot be excluded.

The common gamma-chain (gamma(c)) is a functional component of the IL-4R, yet cells lacking gamma(c) are able to respond to IL-4.

This has led to the suggestion that a surrogate gamma&apos;-chain, which can interact with the IL-4R alpha chain to mediate signaling, is expressed on cells lacking gamma(c).

An alternative possibility is that in the absence of gamma(c), the IL-4R alpha chain is able to transduce signals by homodimerization.

However, tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK-3, which associates with gamma(c), is not induced by SCF in these cells.

Together, these data demonstrate that the IL-4R alpha cytoplasmic domain is sufficient to activate JAK-1 and STAT6 and to induce expression of IL-4 target genes, thus identifying a mechanism by which IL-4 signaling can proceed in the absence of JAK-3 and gamma(c).

Stimulation of purified T lymphocytes by a combination of monoclonal antibodies directed at CD2 and CD28 adhesion molecules gives rise to a long lasting proliferation in the absence of accessory cells.

Cyclin A was observed after 4 days of costimulation with anti CD2 + CD28 whereas stimulation by anti CD2 or anti CD28 alone was not effective.

Consistent with theses results, nuclear extracts prepared from quiescent cells formed a specific complex with this element, whereas extracts prepared from cells treated with anti CD2 + anti CD28 failed to do so after cells entered a proliferative state.

IL-10 inhibition of IFN-gamma-induced ICAM-1 expression was apparent as early as 3 hours and was blocked by an anti-IL-10 antibody but not by an isotype-matched control antibody.

Nuclear run-on transcription assays showed that IL-10 inhibited the rate of IFN-gamma-induced transcription of the ICAM-1 gene, and mRNA stability studies showed that IL-10 did not alter the half-life of IFN-gamma-induced ICAM-1 message.

However, IL-10 did not affect IFN-gamma-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT-1alpha or alter STAT-1alpha binding to the IFN-gamma response element (IRE) in the ICAM-1 promoter.

In fact, mAb L243 but not the staphylococcal superantigens, staphylococcal exotoxin toxic shock syndrome toxin-I or staphylococcal enterotoxin B, regulate the NF-kappa B binding activity.

We investigated the transactivation potential of Stat6 and found that it is not restricted to lymphocytes.

Our previous studies showed that the exposure of human monocytes to E. chaffeensis induces the expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-8, and IL-10 genes in vitro but not the expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-6 mRNAs.

Fab fragment of anti-E. chaffeensis immunoglobulin G complexed with E. chaffeensis did not induce any of these three cytokines, indicating that ehrlichial binding is required for IL-1beta mRNA expression and that binding of the immune complex to the Fc gamma receptor is required for TNF-alpha and IL-6 mRNA expression and enhanced IL-1beta mRNA expression.

In monocytes, the virus was bound to the surface without being internalized.

No virus replication and no transcription of the Ad2 early genes was observed in either of the cells.

In macrophages, a slight enhancement of TNF-alpha production was seen, whereas IL-1 beta was not detected.

The data indicate that cellular genes might be activated by Ad2 virus infection in nonpermissive cells where no viral gene products could be detected.

The CRE and kappaB3 sites in region II together conferred strong LPS responsiveness to a heterologous promoter, whereas individually they failed to provide transcriptional activation.

In resting Raji cells, little to no binding to the X2 box was observed.

As determined by transient expression and RNA analyses, the activation of protein kinase C (PKC) also increased rates of transcription from the wild-type DRA promoter but not from a DRA promoter bearing clustered point mutations in the X2 box.

Since the co-expression with a dominant negative c-Fos abolished the responsiveness to TPA, we conclude that activated transcription of the DRA gene depends on interactions between the X2 box and NF-X2, which contains c-Fos.

In contrast, IFN-alpha/beta rescued T cell clones from apoptosis without active proliferation, and expression of apoptosis-associated proteins tested so far was unaffected.

It is known that the expression levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in adult T cell leukemia(ATL) cells are high, whereas those in T-lymphoid cells are not.

Individual mutation of the DBF or AP3-L site as well as the double mutation AP-1(III)/AP3-L did not affect HIV-1 replication compared to that of the wild-type virus.

The ability of ascorbate to enhance cytoplasmic inhibitory IkBalpha protein degradation correlates completely with its capacity to induce NF-kappaB binding to DNA and to potentiate NF-kappaB-mediated transactivation of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat promoter in TNF-alpha-stimulated Jurkat cells but not in cells stimulated with PMA plus ionomycin.

AFR behaves like ascorbate, while DHA and ascorbate phosphate do not affect TNF-alpha-mediated NF-kappaB activation.

Bacterially expressed RP1 protein revealed specific binding to wild-type but not to mutated APC protein.

As the expression level of the RP1 gene in activated T cells and a spectrum of tumor-derived cell lines correlates with the proliferative status of the cells, members of the EB1-like gene family may not only be involved in the tumorigenesis of colorectal cancers but may also play a role in the proliferative control of normal cells.

While several lines of investigation have suggested that NF-kappaB/Rel family members make up the CD28 response complex transcription factor, other work has not supported this conclusion.

Recent studies suggest that the CD28 response element (CD28RE) does not function independently but works instead in conjunction with the adjacent promoter proximal AP-1-binding site and this hypothesis is confirmed here.

We demonstrate that one target of this positive/negative regulation in vivo is the alpha4 integrin, which play a key role in normal hematopoiesis and function of mature leukocytes.

Eed binds to K protein through a domain in its N terminus, but interestingly, this domain is not found in the Drosophila Esc.

APLs with the PML-RAR alpha or the PLZF-RAR alpha fusion protein are phenotypically indistinguishable except that they differ in their sensitivity to retinoic acid (RA)-induced differentiation: PML-RAR alpha blasts are sensitive to RA and patients enter disease remission after RA treatment, while patients with PLZF-RAR alpha do not.

We here report that (i) like PML-RAR alpha expression, PLZF-RAR alpha expression blocks terminal differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cell lines (U937 and HL-60) in response to different stimuli (vitamin D3, transforming growth factor beta1, and dimethyl sulfoxide); (ii) PML-RAR alpha, but not PLZF-RAR alpha, increases RA sensitivity of hematopoietic precursor cells and restores RA sensitivity of RA-resistant hematopoietic cells; (iii) PML-RAR alpha and PLZF-RAR alpha have similar RA binding affinities; and (iv) PML-RAR alpha enhances the RA response of RA target genes (those for RAR beta, RAR gamma, and transglutaminase type II [TGase]) in vivo, while PLZF-RAR alpha expression has either no effect (RAR beta) or an inhibitory activity (RAR gamma and type II TGase).

When the EKLF-/- cells were injected into blastocysts, they did not contribute at a detectable level to the mature erythrocyte compartment of the chimeric animals, based on analysis of glucose phosphate isomerase-1 (GPI-1) isozymes and hemoglobins that distinguish ES cell-derived erythrocytes from host blastocyst-derived erythrocytes.

The induced complexes were detectable in extracts of cells incubated with anti-class I monoclonal antibody (mAb) for 1.5 h; the induction was maximal at 5 h, persistent at 16 h and no longer observed at 40 h.

The mAb failed to induce NF-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in cells incubated in the presence of 3,4-dichloroisocoumarin, an inhibitor of I kappa B-alpha degradation.

Cyclosporin A interferes with the inducible degradation of NF-kappa B inhibitors, but not with the processing of p105/NF-kappa B1 in T cells.

CsA does not interfere with the synthesis of Rel proteins, but prevents the inducible degradation of cytosolic NF-kappa B inhibitors I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta upon T cell activation.

CsA neither inhibits the processing of the NF-kappa B1 precursor p105 to p50, nor does it &quot;stabilize&quot; the C-terminal portion of p105, I kappa B gamma, which is degraded during p105 processing to mature p50.

These results indicate that CsA interferes with a specific event in the signal-induced degradation of I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta, but does not affect the processing of NF-kappa B1/p105 to p50.

With the aim of identifying genetic targets for these transcription factors, we stably transfected cDNAs encoding EBF or a covalent homodimer of E47, individually or together, into immature hematopoietic Ba/F3 cells, which lack both factors.

The correlation is specific as the level of at least three other transcription factors did not change.

Despite its reported role as a negative regulator of transcription, Ig/EBP-1 appears to exert a stimulatory effect on this promoter.

Interleukin-5 (IL-5), which is produced by CD4(+) T helper 2 (Th2) cells, but not by Th1 cells, plays a key role in the development of eosinophilia in asthma.

During the differentiation of naive CD4(+) T cells isolated from T cell receptor transgenic mice, GATA-3 gene expression was up-regulated in developing Th2 cells, but was down-regulated in Th1 cells, and antigen- or cAMP-activated Th2 cells (but not Th1 cells) expressed the GATA-3 protein.

These compounds strongly increased the phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response, whereas we have not observed a contribution of phosphatase inhibitors on a CCK-8-induced luciferase activity.

Cytokine-stimulated cell surface expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1, CD106) and E-selectin (ELAM-1, CD62E), but not of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1, CD54), was time- and dose-dependently inhibited by TCP succinate but not by TCP or TCP acetate.

Succinate alone had no effect.

TCP succinate (20 microM, 72 h), but not TCP (200 microM, 72 h), reduced U-937 cell adhesion to TNF-alpha-stimulated (10 U/ml, 6 h) HUVEC by 30% (P &lt; 0.025) and to IL-1 beta-stimulated HUVEC by 56% (P &lt; 0.010).

Electrophoretic mobility-shift assays of HUVEC nuclear proteins revealed a decrease in TNF-alpha-stimulated nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) activation after pretreatment of HUVEC with TCP succinate but not with TCP, TCP acetate, or succinate alone.

NAC inhibited interleukin-1 (IL-1 beta)-induced, but not basal, adhesion with 50% inhibition at approximately 20 mM.

NAC had no effect on the half-life of E-selectin or VCAM-1 mRNA.

Although NAC reduced nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) activation in EC as measured by gel-shift assays using an oligonucleotide probe corresponding to the consensus NF-kappa B binding sites of the VCAM-1 gene (VCAM-NF-kappa B), the antioxidant had no appreciable effect when an oligomer corresponding to the consensus NF-kappa B binding site of the E-selectin gene (E-selectin-NF-kappa B) was used.

IFN-gamma triggers a well-defined signal transduction pathway, which although not directly stimulated by monocyte adherence to fibronectin or arginine-glycine-aspartate (RGD)-coated substrata, was enhanced significantly in these matrix-adherent cells.

The sophisticated control of Rel/NF-kappa B activity is not surprising since this transcription factor is involved in a wide array of cellular responses to extracellular cues, associated with growth, development, apoptosis, and pathogen invasion.

Thus, it is not unexpected that this versatile cellular homeostatic switch would be affected by a variety of viral pathogens, which have evolved mechanisms to utilize various aspects of Rel/NF-kappa B activity to facilitate their replication, cell survival and possibly evasion of immune responses.

For comparison, we recruited a control group consisting of 32 healthy males and females with similar age distribution and without a history of exposure to MTBE or benzene.

We have identified a novel gene, GR6, located within the leukemia breakpoint region of 3q21, that is normally expressed in early fetal development but not in adult peripheral blood.

A clinically relevant dose (25 mM) of acute ethanol treatment in vitro increased NF-kappa B binding activity in monocytes with a preferential induction of the inhibitory, p50/p50, NF-kappa B/Rel homodimer, and resulted in no induction of the p65/p50 heterodimer.

Thus, such unique activation of the inhibitory p50/p50 homodimer by acute ethanol treatment may result in inhibition rather than activation of NF-kappa B-regulated inflammatory cytokine genes.

Transfection of EL-4 cells with the IL-4 promoter-reporter constructs carrying mutated P-like elements showed that four P-like elements, CLE0, P, P2 and P4, but not P3, were required for optimal activation of the IL-4 promoter.

Six tandem repeats of the P element linked to the SV40 promoter responded to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, while that of other elements did not.

It would thus appear that components of each P-like element-binding complexes are not identical and may coordinately contribute to transcriptional activity.

In addition, BHRF1 protected these cells from monocyte-mediated killing but failed to protect them from killing mediated by lymphokine-activated killer cells.

Moreover, the mechanism of action of BHRF1 resembled that of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL as it inhibited TNF- and anti-Fas-induced activation of two enzymes participating in the apoptosis pathway, cytosolic phospholipase A2 and caspase-3/CPP32, but did not interfere with the activation of NF-kappaB-like transcription factors.

Surprisingly, expression of neither BHRF1 nor Bcl-2 in a B-cell line, BJAB, protected the cells from anti-Fas-mediated apoptosis even though they increased the survival of serum-starved cells.

TACI-induced activation of NF-AT was specifically blocked by a dominant-negative CAML mutant, thus implicating CAML as a signaling intermediate.

We have therefore investigated the transcriptional activity of A-MYB and its regulation in several human lymphoid cell lines using co-transfection assays and show that A-MYB is transcriptionally active in all the B cell lines studied, but not in T cells.

The activity of A-MYB in B and not T cells was observed when either an artificial construct or the c-MYC promoter was used as a reporter.

Furthermore, the functional domains responsible for DNA binding, transactivation, and negative regulation, previously characterized in a fibroblast context, were found to have similar activity in B cells.

Finally, a 110-kDa protein has been identified in the nuclei of all the B, but not T, cell lines that specifically binds to this A-MYB N-terminal domain.

The NF kappa B2 effect was dependent on the presence of the STAT6 binding site, demonstrating that the NF kappa B2 motif is necessary but not sufficient for mediating cytokine up-regulation.

In addition, the combination of a NF kappa B/rel binding site and the STAT6 response element conferred IL-4 inducibility to a heterologous minimal promoter, while the individual sites had no effect.

By immunocytochemistry, 25 ± 7% of the human neutrophils were shown to express immunoreactive GH, whereas eosinophils were negative.

Restriction analysis revealed that neutrophils express the GH-N gene but not the GH-V gene.

The molecular mechanisms underlying the IL-7 effect involve the upregulation of the DNA binding activity of NFAT (60%) and AP-1 (120%), without affecting the activities of NFkappaB and CD28RC, which was confirmed by transfection assays.

We also show that the IL-7-induced enhancement of the AP-1-DNA binding activity is not cyclosporin A-sensitive.

By contrast, the monocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) receptor was largely absent at this stage and in the CD34+Thy-1-CD45RA- subsets.

In conclusion, the presence of myeloid-associated growth factor receptor transcripts in CD34+ CB subsets does not discriminate the various stages of differentiation, with the exception of the M-CSF receptor.

This was also accompanied by a decrease in both PKC activity and nuclear transcription factor-kappaB activation, also without loss of cell viability.

In the absence of TCR-mediated activation, Vpr induces apoptosis whereas in its presence, Vpr interrupts the expected induction of apoptosis.

Analysis of Tax mutants showed that two mutants, IEXC29S and IEXL320G, were unable to significantly transactivate the c-sis/PDGF-B promoter.

Interestingly, co-immunoprecipitation analysis also revealed that Tax mutant IEXC29S is unable to interact with NGFI-A/Egr-1, whereas Tax mutant IEXL320G is able to interact with NGFI-A/Egr-1.

Although subtle gene movements within those defined topographical regions cannot be excluded by this study, the results indicate that tissue specificity of gene expression is not accompanied by drastic changes in gene nuclear topography, rather suggesting that gene organization within the nucleus may be primarily dependent on structural constraints imposed on the respective chromosomes.

This adhesion molecule was also expressed by T cells obtained from one patient with HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis but not by activated T cells isolated from one normal blood donor.

This inhibition, which occurred with a parallel activation of c-Jun transactivating functions and expression, was reflected by transfection experiments at the IL-2 promoter level, and involved not only the inhibition of NF-kappaB-driven reporter activation but also that of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT).

After stimulation, neutrophils separated from a healthy human volunteer were added with or without anti-CD18 antibody.

While these compounds affect various cellular processes, current data do not fully explain how sesquiterpene lactones exert their anti-inflammatory effect.

This inhibition is selective, as the activity of four other transcription factors, Oct-1, TBP, Sp1 and STAT 5 was not affected.

We show that inhibition is not due to a direct modification of the active NF-kappaB heterodimer.

Double-stimulation was used to demonstrate that, in a T lymphocytic cell line (CEM), phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) rapidly induced NF-kappa B through a signaling pathway which did not involve reactive oxygen species (ROS) and was different from the activation triggered by either H2O2 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha).

Since these latter compounds were known to activate NF-kappa B translocation in a redox-sensitive way, we have demonstrated that NF-kappa B activation by PMA was resistant to antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) and sensitive to kinase inhibitors staurosporine and H7 while activation by H2O2 or TNF-alpha were not.

Suppression of MHC class II expression by human class II trans-activator constructs lacking the N-terminal domain.

CD30-dependent degradation of TRAF2: implications for negative regulation of TRAF signaling and the control of cell survival.

Consistent with this hypothesis, expression of a dominant-negative form of TRAF2 was found to potentiate TNFR1-mediated death.

Signals from TES1 are sufficient to drive initial proliferation of infected resting B lymphocytes, but most lymphoblastoid cells infected with a virus that does not express the 155 residues beyond TES1 fail to grow as long-term cell lines.

TRADD was the only protein that interacted with wild-type TES2 and not with isoleucine-mutated TES2.

TRADD associated with wild-type LMP1 but not with isoleucine-mutated LMP1 in mammalian cells, and TRADD constitutively associated with LMP1 in EBV-transformed cells.

A threonine residue at position 234, previously shown to be important for CD40 association with TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2), TRAF3, and TRAF5, was not required for NF-kappa B activation.

CD40- or pervanadate-mediated I kappa B tyrosine phosphorylation was not detected.

In contrast, expression of B cell-expressed genes that are not dependent on cell-specific controls is unaffected.

We show that the molecular mechanism(s) underlying Ig gene extinction can be explained, at least in part, by a lack of transcription factors that are essential for Ig gene transcription.

These transcription factors are either not produced due to block of transcription of their respective genes (Oct-2, OBF-1, PU.1), or are rendered inactive posttranslationally (NF-kappa B, E47).

These bHLH antagonists are induced during a mitogenic signalling response, and they function by sequestering their bHLH targets in inactive heterodimers that are unable to bind to specific gene regulatory (E box) sequences.

Furthermore, compared with wild-type Id3, an Id3 Asp5 mutant (mimicking phosphorylation) is unable to promote cell cycle S phase entry in transfected fibroblasts, whereas an Id3 Ala5 mutant (ablating phosphorylation) displays an activity significantly greater than that of wild-type Id3 protein.

These data also demonstrate that the ability of Id3 to promote cell cycle S phase entry is not simply a function of its ability to modulate bHLH heterodimer-dependent gene expression and establish a biologically important mechanism through which Cdk2 and Id-bHLH functions are integrated in the coordination of cell proliferation and differentiation.

Human endothelial cells were exposed to hypoxia in the presence or absence of added lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and examined for expression of functional ICAM-1.

Although hypoxia alone did not induce ICAM-1, the combination of LPS and hypoxia enhanced (3 ± 0.4-fold over normoxia) ICAM-1 expression.

NB4 cells pulse-exposed (30 minutes) to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), washed, and cultured (3 days) with either dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) or hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) had a prominent increase in levels of C/EBP epsilon mRNA and an increase in granulocytic differentiation, but exposure to either DMSO or HMBA alone had no effect on base levels of C/EBP epsilon and did not induce differentiation.

Furthermore, this C/EBP epsilon mRNA accumulation did not require synthesis of new protein factors because 9-cis RA induced C/EBP epsilon mRNA accumulation in the absence of new protein synthesis.

This induction of C/EBP epsilon mRNA expression is transcriptionally mediated and occurs in the absence of synthesis of additional protein factors.

The expression of I kappa B-alpha gene, which is responsive to activation by NF-kappa B, was up-regulated in PBMC and monocytes from patients, but not in mononuclear cells from healthy subjects or those with nontuberculous lung diseases.

By contrast, the expression of other adherence-associated early genes, such as IL-8 and IL-1 beta, was not up-regulated in PBMC of tuberculous patients.

Results indicated that (i) constitutive c-fos transcript levels are significantly higher in patients subsequently responding to IFN-alpha therapy (p &lt; 0.01) and positively correlated with the proportion of lymphocytes (r = 0.6895, p &lt; 0.01) and negatively with the proportion of immature cells (r = -0.568, p &lt; 0.01) contained in the pbmc preparations tested, (ii) constitutive mRNA levels of the hybrid bcr/abl, c-myc and p53 are positively correlated with each other, but failed to relate to disease parameters, and (iii) acute and chronic in vivo exposure to IFN-alpha is accompanied by upregulation of c-fos and downregulation of c-myc mRNA levels in responder patients.

However, nuclear targets for PI3K are not known.

A murine T cell line, EL4, was stimulated with IL-1 with and without pretreatment with different compounds known to influence the cellular redox status.

N-Acetylcysteine, alpha,alpha&apos;-dipyridyl, aminotriazole or nitrofurantoin did not show any effect.

Using protein-DNA interaction assays we show that the H4 promoter contains two ATF/CREB recognition motifs which interact with CREB, ATF1, and ATF2 but not with ATF4/CREB2.

Surprisingly, G28-5 sFv was a potent CD40 agonist that rapidly crosslinked CD40 on the cell surface but did not crosslink CD40-Ig in solution.

However, no transcription deficiency has been demonstrated in either XP-B or XP-D.

Thus, we conclude that the XP-B and XP-D lymphoblastoid cells do not have impaired RNA transcription activity.

However, IL2 does not reverse CsA inhibition, suggesting that at least one other NFAT-sensitive gene may be involved.

Our results suggest that G0S2 expression is required to commit cells to enter the G1 phase of the cell cycle, and that, while not excluding other possible targets, early inhibition of G0S2 expression by CsA may be important in achieving immunosuppression.

G0S2 may be of value as a reporter gene for analyzing the mechanism of action of CsA and its influence on the positive and negative selection of lymphocytes in response to self and not-self antigens.

In contrast, the binding activities of NF1 and Sp1 were not affected by ER.

The molecular mechanism(s) responsible for this phenomenon have not been clearly elucidated.

We have hypothesized that such defects in fetal/neonatal T-cell activation may be due to lack of expression of the transcriptional regulatory elements required for T-cell activation.

Thus, qualitative differences in the capacity to regulate these factors could not be shown in fetal blood cells.

Moreover, supplementing the cultures with high doses of IL-2 reverted anti-TNF-alpha inhibition of cell proliferation but did not affect the inhibition of HIV p24 antigen release or NF-kappa B activation in the same cultures.

Moreover, anti-TNF-alpha inhibited HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR)-driven transcription of a reporter gene in primary T cells in response to activation, either in the presence or the absence of HIV-1 Tat.

The same gene segment was not transcribed in IL-5-nonproducing T cell clones, suggesting that human T cell IL-5 synthesis is regulated at the transcriptional level.

There is no significant difference in the turnover of pre- and post-inductive I kappa B alpha.

The absence of slow migrating forms of I kappa B beta following stimulation suggests that the phosphorylation does not necessarily constitute the signal-induced event which targets the molecule for proteolysis.

In addition, both RelA and c-Rel, but not NF-kappa B1, were shown to transactivate an ICAM-1 kappa B-reporter construct.

We now show that a mutant motif that exchanges the terminal 3&apos; C for a G fails to bind the p50 homodimer that is upregulated in LPS toler ant human Mono Mac 6 cells.

Here the wild type motif gives efficient binding of p50p50 that again is upregulated in tolerant cells whereas a mutant with a 3&apos; G shows hardly any binding of p50p50.

Conversely, the murine kappa light chain enhancer motif (GGGGACTTTCCG) does not efficiently bind the nuclear p50p50 from tolerant murine P388 macrophages.

Activation of NF-kappa B seems to play an important role in the regulation of many proinflammatory cytokine genes, but cannot be the only mechanism, since several cytokine genes lack respective binding sites in their promoter regions.

We identified a cell-type-specific differential response: CREB, CTF, OTF-1, OFT-2, and NF-kappa B genes were strongly induced 1 to 4 hours after influenza A virus infection in the monocytic cell line Mono Mac 6, while in freshly prepared human monocytes no significant changes were detected.

Moreover, transfection of Daudi cells with the polymerized NF-kappaB binding sequence ligated to a thymidine kinase/chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter plasmid greatly induced CAT activity, but transfection with the polymerized mutated NF-kappaB binding sequence did not.

Interestingly, the DEX-mediated IkappaBalpha induction was completely inhibited by IL-2, but not IL-4, in Th1 cells, while the reverse profile was seen in Th2 cells.

Recently, we showed that elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP inhibits NF-kappaB-mediated transcription in human monocytes and endothelial cells without preventing nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB complexes.

Lysates from CD19 cross-linked 1E8 cells induced robust phosphorylation of an Elk-1 fusion protein in vitro, whereas no phosphorylation of Elk-1 fusion protein occurred using lysates from CD19 cross-linked BLIN-1 cells.

An electrophoretic mobility shift assay employing AP-1 and NF-kappaB consensus oligonucleotides was used to demonstrate that AP-1 -binding activity increased, while constitutive NF-kappaB-binding activity was not enhanced, following 2 h of CD19 cross-linking in 1E8 cells.

In contrast, CD19 cross-linking in BLIN-1 cells resulted in the induction of NF-kappaB, but had no apparent effect on AP-1-binding activity.

Northern blot analysis failed to detect IL-2 mRNA, suggesting that IL-2 may act in a paracrine manner in vivo.

IL-2 binding analysis demonstrated that IL-2 markedly increased the number of low affinity IL-2Rs on the leukemia cells, without an effect on the number of high-affinity IL-2Rs.

Conversely, a dominant negative version of TRAF6 failed to block hToll-induced activation of stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases, thus suggesting an early divergence of the two pathways.

Surprisingly, however, removal of PC4 from the unfractionated nuclear extract has no detrimental effect on OCA-B/Oct-1-dependent transcription.

M. tuberculosis ManLAM resulted in clear induction of the luciferase gene placed under the control of the wild-type, but not the kappaB-mutated, HIV-1 LTR region.

The only exception was hydrogen peroxide at 20 microM, which did not induce catalase activity.

We conclude that: (i) suppression of specific transcription factor functions can potentially serve as a marker of exposure to oxidative stress and its effects on human lymphocytes; (ii) lipid peroxidation is only detectable in human lymphocytes upon exposure to weak oxidative stress which does not induce catalase activity; (iii) therefore, transcription factor DNA-binding activities are more sensitive to oxidative stress than lipid peroxidation.

A nondegradable mutant of I kappa B blocked both FasL expression and apoptosis induced by DNA damage but not Fas ligation.

TPO induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the TPO receptor but not the erythropoietin (EPO) receptor.

There was no competition between TPO and EPO for binding to EPO receptor.

Adhesion to extracellular matrices is known to modulate leukocyte activation, although the mechanisms are not fully understood.

Fibrinogen also caused activation of AP-1, but not SP1 or cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) factors.

In contrast to anti-CD3/IL-2-activated LN cells, adoptive transfer of freshly isolated tumor-draining LN T cells has no therapeutic activity.

Mice generated by gene targeting to lack MyD88 have defects in T cell proliferation as well as induction of acute phase proteins and cytokines in response to IL-1.

Dominant negative mutants of NIK, IKKalpha, or IKKbeta substantially inhibited NF-kappaB activation by LMP1 or by each of its effector sites.

Dithiocarbamates (DTC), a diverse group of industrial and therapeutic chemicals, have been reported to inhibit, enhance or have no effect on the immune system.

This inhibition is not accompanied by a loss in viability, and DMDTC-treated T cells retain other active signaling pathways throughout the exposure duration.

The inhibition of NF-kappaB is apparently permanent as DMDTC-treated T cells did not regain normal TNF-alpha activation, even after 72 h in culture.

DMDTC does not appear to alter NF-kappaB directly as pre-incubation of nuclear extracts with DMDTC does not diminish binding activity of this protein.

We demonstrate in this report that overexpression of an activated form of Rho enhances AP-1 activity in Jurkat T cells in the presence of phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), but activated Rho (V14Rho) has little or no effect on NFAT, Oct-1, and NF-kappaB enhancer element activities under similar conditions.

The effect of Rho on AP-1 is independent of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, as a dominant-negative MEK and a MEK inhibitor (PD98059) did not affect Rho-induced AP-1 activity.

In contrast, a mutant of Tax termed M22, which does not induce NF-kappaB, fails to activate either IKKalpha or IKKbeta.

However, plasma membrane-proximal elements in these proinflammatory cytokine pathways are apparently not involved since dominant negative mutants of the TRAF2 and TRAF6 adaptors, which effectively block signaling through the cytoplasmic tails of the TNF-alpha and IL-1 receptors, respectively, do not inhibit Tax induction of NF-kappaB.

A CD28-associated signaling pathway leading to cytokine gene transcription and T cell proliferation without TCR engagement.

Stimulation of resting human T cells with the CD28-specific mAb BW 828 induces proliferation and cytokine synthesis without further requirement for TCR coengagement.

This observation prompted us to postulate that signal 2 (costimulatory signal) alone without signal 1 (TCR signal) can activate T cells.

Stimulation of T cells with BW 828 induced an increase in intracellular Ca2+, but did not lead to detectable activation of the protein kinases p56(lck) and c-Raf-1.

On the other hand, stimulation of T cells with mAb 9.3 increased the level of intracellular Ca2+ and triggered the activation of p56(lck) and c-Raf-1, but was unable to induce the binding of transcription factors to the IL-2 promoter.

Inducible nitric oxide (iNO) is produced at sites of vascular inflammation by resident and nonresident vascular wall cells, but its role in the inflammatory process is not known.

Cytokines, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-7, IL-12, and IL-15 are key regulators of human peripheral blood T and NK cell activation and differentiation but the precise mechanisms that give rise to their differential activities within these cells are not clear.

We demonstrate that IL-12 induces STAT4 only in freshly isolated primary NK cells, but not in primary T cells, consistent with the lack of the IL-12 receptor in resting T cells.

Moreover, IL-4 costimulation with IL-2 or IL-12 does not alter their own preferential GAS-like DNA binding patterns when C epsilon-, Fc gamma RI-, and SIE GAS motif containing oligonucleotide probes are compared, suggesting that induction of GAS-like DNA-protein binding complexes by IL-2, IL-4, and IL-12 is highly selective and represents one important factor in determining specific gene activation.

Low concentrations of RA inhibiting IgE synthesis (10(-10) mol/L) affected neither B-cell proliferation nor the production of IgA, IgG, and IgM.

Elucidation of the mechanism involved in this inhibition of IgE production shows that epsilon germline transcription is decreased by RA, whereas production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was not enhanced in the presence of RA.

Our analyses of the induction of nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) in activated memory (CD45RO+) and naive (CD45RA+) T cell subsets from young and elderly donors has demonstrated that, regardless of donor age, memory T cells are not significantly altered in their responsiveness to TNF-alpha-mediated induction of NFkappaB.

Activation of E2F-mediated transcription by human T-cell leukemia virus type I Tax protein in a p16(INK4A)-negative T-cell line.

Indeed, when Tax is coexpressed with the E2F-1 transcription factor in CEM T-cells, which lack expression of p16(INK4A), it strongly potentiates the E2F-dependent activation of a reporter construct driven by a promoter containing E2F binding sites.

Using Tax mutants that fail to activate either ATF- or NF-kappaB-dependent promoters and different 5&apos; truncation mutants of the E2F-1 promoter, we show that the Tax-dependent transcriptional control of the E2F1 gene involves, at least in part, the ATF binding site located in the E2F-1 promoter.

Fragmentation was not observed in ICR27TK.3 cells containing mutant glucocorticoid receptors (L753F) that are activation-deficient but retain the ability to repress AP-1 activity.

Nor was fragmentation observed after treatment with RU38486, indicating that repression of AP-1 activity is not involved.

Dexamethasone treatment completely blocked 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induction of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity and elicited an increase in the amount of immunoreactive IkappaB alpha in sensitive 6TG1.1 cells but not in resistant ICR27TK.3 cells.

Impairments in the translocation of Rel-B and c-Rel further suggest that the NFKB family members Rel-A, Rel-B and c-Rel are not required for the transcription of IL-2 in the peripheral T lymphocytes of patients with breast cancer.

Induction of Mn SOD in human monocytes without inflammatory cytokine production by a mutant endotoxin.

Endotoxin selectively induces monocyte Mn superoxide dismutase (SOD) without affecting levels of Cu,Zn SOD, catalase, or glutathione peroxidase.

In this study we demonstrated that a mutant Escherichia coli endotoxin lacking myristoyl fatty acid at the 3&apos; R-3-hydroxymyristate position of the lipid A moiety retained its full capacity to coagulate Limulus amoebocyte lysate compared with the wild-type E. coli endotoxin and markedly stimulated the activation of human monocyte nuclear factor-kappaB and the induction of Mn SOD mRNA and enzyme activity.

However, in contrast to the wild-type endotoxin, it failed to induce significant production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha by monocytes and did not induce the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of mitogen-activated protein kinase.

These results suggest that 1) lipid A myristoyl fatty acid, although it is important for the induction of inflammatory cytokine production by human monocytes, is not necessary for the induction of Mn SOD, 2) endotoxin-mediated induction of Mn SOD and inflammatory cytokines are regulated, at least in part, through different signal transduction pathways, and 3) failure of the mutant endotoxin to induce tumor necrosis factor-alpha production is, at least in part, due to its inability to activate mitogen-activated protein kinase.

Additionally, to determine the impact of RXR for erythroid cell development, dominant interfering mutant RXRs, lacking the transcriptional activator functions AF-1 and AF-2, or AF-2 only, or the entire DNA-binding domain, were introduced into erythroid progenitor cells via recombinant retrovirus vectors and analyzed for RXR-specific effects.

Apoptosis was prevented when CD4 truncated at residue 402 was expressed; however, cells expressing mutated receptors that do not associate with p56(lck) (mutated at the dicysteine motif and truncated at residue 418) but which conserved proximal domains of the cytoplasmic tail underwent apoptosis like wild- type CD4.

The differences between wild-type and mutated receptors in the induction of apoptosis were not related to levels of p56(lck) or NF- kappaB activation.

Incubation of HIV-infected cells with monoclonal antibody (MAb) 13B8-2, which binds to CD4 in a region critical for dimerization of the receptor, prevented apoptosis without inhibiting HIV replication.

Moreover, the apoptotic process was not related to Fas-Fas ligand interaction; however, an antagonistic anti-Fas MAb (ZB-4) enhanced apoptosis in HIV-infected cells without inducing apoptosis in uninfected cells.

These observations demonstrate that CD4 signaling mediates HIV-induced apoptosis by a mechanism independent of Fas-Fas ligand interaction, does not require p56(lck) signaling, and may involve a critical region for CD4 dimerization.

In neonatal T cells NF-kappa B activation and ROI formation after anti-CD3 stimulation were low compared with adult T cells and, although addition of anti-CD28 mAb increased induction of NF-kappa B and ROI formation, levels similar to those of adults were not achieved.

Liposomal transfection of a double-stranded kappaB phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, but not of the mutated form, inhibited MCP-1 secretion and surface expression of ICAM-1 on activated endothelium (P&lt;0.05).

Because point mutagenesis cannot distinguish between family members, it is not known which protein activates 5&apos;HS3.

It was concluded that even when LMP1 is unable to activate NF-kappaB, it is still capable of inducing certain characteristics of activated B cells, strongly suggesting that LMP1 can also activate cells independently of NF-kappaB.

However, the cells obtained from IL-2-treated patients did not have low-level constitutive expression of STAT binding factors as did LAK cells.

These data provide further information on the molecular events occurring in immune cells generated through in vivo and in vitro administration of IL-2, and further document that there is not a precise congruence between PBMC activated in vivo and in vitro by IL-2.

Despite overwhelming evidence that enhanced production of the p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor (p75TNF-R) accompanies development of specific human inflammatory pathologies such as multi-organ failure during sepsis, inflammatory liver disease, pancreatitis, respiratory distress syndrome, or AIDS, the function of this receptor remains poorly defined in vivo.

Cepharanthine dose dependently inhibited HIV-1 replication in TNF-alpha- and PMA-stimulated U1 cells but not in ACH-2 cells.

In contrast, expression of dominant negative mutants of Ras and Raf-1, in these cells, did not have any effect on FcR-mediated nuclear factor activation, suggesting that the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway was not used by these receptors.

These results strongly suggest that the signaling pathway from Fc receptors leading to expression of different genes important to leukocyte biology, initiates with tyrosine kinases and requires MAPK activation; but in contrast to other tyrosine kinase receptors, FcR-mediated MAPK activation does not involve Ras and Raf.

Further Northern analyses indicated that there was no significant change in 17beta-HSD IV or DNA-PK(CS) mRNA levels following treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3, although expression of both genes varied with changes in cell proliferation.

In all of these animals, the expression of BLR1 was reduced or absent.

When used in combination, the polyamides inhibit virus replication by &gt;99% in isolated human peripheral blood lymphocytes, with no detectable cell toxicity.

No significative changes in EBV latency nor in cell surface marker expression was found.

Unlike ligation of CD3, stimulation with anti-CD28 mAb or CHO cells expressing the CD28 ligands CD80 or CD86 did not lead to tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1 in Jurkat T cells.

Additionally, no tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1 was induced by mitogenic pairs of anti-CD2 mAbs capable of activating the transcription factor NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells).

Costimulation through CD28 and/or CD2 did not modulate the CD3-dependent phosphorylation of HS1.

In vivo studies indicated that CD3-induced HSI phosphorylation was dependent upon both the Src family tyrosine kinase Lck and the tyrosine phosphatase CD45, did not require MEK1 kinase activity, and was regulated by protein kinase C activation.

Furthermore, activation-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1 was not required for NFAT transcriptional activation.

Whereas IL-4 had little or no effect, IL-7 delayed both the apoptosis and cell cycle arrest that occur upon v-Abl kinase inactivation.

IL-7 did not maintain v-Abl-mediated differentiation arrest of the pre-B cells, as activation of NF-kappaB and RAG gene transcription was unaffected by IL-7.

p21ras initiates Rac-1 but not phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase/PKB, mediated signaling pathways in T lymphocytes.

The role of PtdIns 3-kinase in Ras signaling in T cells has not been explored.

Moreover, neither TCR or Ras activation of AP-1 is dependent on PtdIns 3-kinase.

In contrast, p21ras signals are unable to induce Akt/PKB activity in T cell nor is Ras function required for Akt/PKB activation in response to the TCR.

The present data thus highlight that PtdIns 3-kinase and Akt/PKB are not universal Ras effector molecules.

When levels were semiquantitated using densitometry, significant decreases of TCRzeta (P = 0.029) and p56(lck) (P = 0.029) but not CD3epsilon (P = 0.131), compared with control levels, were found.

Correlations of TCRzeta or p56(lck) levels with response or disease variables, except for lower TCRzeta levels (P &lt; 0.001) in the presence of bone metastases, were not found.

Abnormal NFkappaB activation after stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin and/or anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody was found in 59% of patients (17 of 28) and was not accounted for by the advanced age of the study cohort.

Moreover, impaired activation of NFkappaB does not appear linked to a reduction of TCRzeta expression, because in five patients, normal TCRzeta levels were present although kappaB binding was not inducible.

Progesterone acts distally to the initial steps of T cell receptor (TCR)-mediated signal transduction, since it blocks sustained Ca2+ signals after thapsigargin stimulation, as well as oscillatory Ca2+ signals, but not the Ca2+ transient after TCR stimulation.

K+ channel blockade by progesterone is specific; other steroid hormones had little or no effect, although the progesterone antagonist RU 486 also blocked KV and KCa channels.

Progesterone had little or no effect on a cloned voltage-gated Na+ channel, an inward rectifier K+ channel, or on lymphocyte Ca2+ and Cl- channels.

At present, the role of the IKKs in LPS signaling has not been investigated.

In transfection experiments, overexpression of wild type IKK1, a dominant negative mutant IKK1 (K44M), or wild type IKK2 did not affect LPS-induced kappaB-dependent transcription in monocytic cells.

In contrast, a dominant negative mutant of IKK2 inhibited LPS induction of kappaB-dependent transcription in a dose-dependent manner.

Qualitatively different effects were observed for the IL-1-induced activation of stress-activated protein (SAP) kinases: permanent overexpression of IRAK did not affect the dose dependence but prolonged the kinetics of IL-1-induced activation of SAP kinases, suggesting that this signaling branch may be regulated by distinct mechanisms.

YM268, with and without insulin, increased the mRNA expression of glucose transporter isoforms such as GLUT1 and GLUT4, indicating enhancement of adipocyte differentiation.

Insulin dose-dependently increased the PI-3,4,5-P3 production but YM268 had no significant effect on the insulin-dependent and -independent PI 3-kinase activation.

Normal RBC show none of these phenomena.

However, not only is expression of the beta-casein gene regulated by STAT5 but it is also affected by other molecules such as glucocorticoid and Ras.

While IL-4 does not activate STAT5, it induces expression of STAT5-regulated genes in CTLL-2, i.e. beta-casein, a cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein (CIS), and oncostatin M (OSM), suggesting that STAT6 activated by IL-4 substitutes for the function of STAT5 in T cells.

Expression of an active form of Ras, Ras(G12V), suppressed the IL-2-induced beta-casein and OSM gene expression, and the negative effect of Ras is mediated by the region between -105 and -193 in the beta-casein promoter.

In apparent contradiction, expression of a dominant negative form of Ras, RasN17, also inhibited IL-2-induced activation of the promoter containing the minimal beta-casein STAT5 element as well as the promoters of CIS and OSM.

Exogenously transfected TAL1 and LMO, but not either alone, induced RALDH2 expression in a T-ALL cell line, HPB-ALL, not expressing endogeneous TAL1 or LMO.

Furthermore, a TAL1 mutant not binding to DNA also activated the transcription of RALDH2 in the presence of LMO and GATA3.

Stat3gamma is derived from Stat3alpha by limited proteolysis and lacks the carboxyl-terminal portion of Stat3alpha.

In addition, a dominant-negative mutant tumor necrosis factor receptor I (TNFRI) expression vector was co-transfected in inhibition studies.

Western blotting of NK cell and membrane extracts detected the presence of Lymphotoxin-alpha (LTalpha) but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha.

Co-transfection with dominant-negative mutant TNFRI inhibited EC activation by NK cell membrane extracts and by NK cells by 80% and 47%, respectively.

However, the molecular basis for the interplay between these distinct stimuli is not clearly delineated.

Targeting of the IRF-1 GAS is not confined to activation via CD40 but extends to other stimuli that mimic the CD40 signaling cascade, like TNF-alpha and EBV.

In this system, simultaneous exposure to CD40L together with either IL-4 or IFN-gamma does not lead to the activation of novel Rel/STAT complexes.

The NLSs of NF-kappa B, AP-1, and NFAT differ and the NLS of STAT1 has not yet been identified.

Furthermore, recombinant TIMP-1, but not TIMP-2 or a synthetic metalloproteinase inhibitor (BB-94), confers resistance to apoptosis induced by both CD95-dependent and -independent (cold shock, serum deprivation, and gamma-radiation) pathways in TIMP-1-negative BL lines.

TIMP-1 suppression of PCD is not due to metalloproteinase inhibition, as reduction and alkylation of the TIMP-1 did not abolish this activity.

Retroviral induction of TIMP-1 not only resulted in cell survival but also in continued DNA synthesis for up to 5 d in the absence of serum, while controls underwent apoptosis.

Furthermore, TIMP-1 upregulation induced expression of Bcl-XL but not Bcl-2 as well as decreased NF-kappaB activity as compared with controls.

Although interleukin (IL)-12 was originally purified from an Epstein-Barr (EBV)-transformed B cell line and the high correlation of EBV infection and IL-12 expression has been suggested, no study has reported whether EBV infection is directly linked to IL-12 expression.

Pertussis toxin treatment markedly decreased kappaB binding activities induced by both C5a and C3a, whereas cholera toxin displayed no inhibitory effect.

However, it was only the IL-2 promoter whose activation by Tpl-2 was fully blocked by the dominant negative mutant MEK1S218/222A and the MEK1/MEK2 inhibitor PD098059.

In addition, they suggested that the activation of the IL-2 promoter is under the control of not only NFAT but also a second factor whose activation is MEK-dependent.

While the activation of the IL-2 promoter and an NFAT-driven minimal promoter by Tpl-2 was fully blocked by the dominant negative mutant NFAT delta418, it was only partially blocked by the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporin A suggesting that the Tpl-2-mediated NFAT activation is under the control of a combination of calcineurin-dependent and independent pathways.

Positive-pressure mechanical ventilation supports gas exchange in patients with respiratory failure but is also responsible for significant lung injury.

Other lung cell types such as endothelial cells, bronchial cells, and fibroblasts failed to produce IL-8 in response to a prolonged cyclic pressure-stretching load.

The molecular mechanisms by which IL-4 induces expression of the IL-4 gene are not known, although the IL-4-activated transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (Stat6) is required for this effect.

This polymorphism represented a C-to-T base exchange which induced a YY1 consensus sequence and is present in a region of the promoter associated with negative transcription regulation.

An NH2-terminal truncation mutant of TRAF6 inhibited RANKL-mediated NF-kappaB activation, but failed to affect constitutive signaling induced by receptor overexpression, revealing a selective role for TRAF6 in ligand-induced activation events.

However, replication of EBV in vivo is controlled primarily by host immune mechanisms selecting for cells that are not permissive for viral replication as the result of a particular set of transcription factors.

This ORF does not contain the characteristic DNA-binding domain found in members of the forkhead protein family.

Our results demonstrate that the altered CCAAT box (CCAAC) and the lack of an EKLF binding site in delta-globin contribute to its low level of expression in the hAEC model as well.

Moreover, a dominant negative form of CBP decreased the activity of class II promoters and levels of class II determinants on the surface of cells.

Interestingly, CTLA4Ig did not significantly inhibit the activation of either NF of activated T cells (NFAT) or AP-1 reporters.

Thus, the requirement for CD28 in IL-2 promoter activation appears to be due to RE/AP and not the NFAT or AP-1 sites.

In addition, these data suggest that transcriptional activation of RE/AP is not mediated by NFAT, because activation of a NFAT reporter is not affected by the addition of CTLA4Ig.

Cells were stimulated with endotoxin (LPS, 100 ng/mL) with and without human IL-10 (10 ng/mL).

In contrast, the transcription factor AP-1 is not required for activation-induced FasL promoter activity.

In a variety of other cell types, which display a constitutive Elk-1 expression, HS 2 did not exist, suggesting that inducibility of elk-1 expression is associated with the presence of HS 2.

Oxidized low-density lipoproteins (oxLDLs) are considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of the lesions, and we have previously demonstrated that oxLDLs inhibit not only interleukin (IL)-2-receptor expression on the surface of in vitro-activated T-lymphocytes but also their proliferation.

HMG-I(Y) also binds to a second oligonucleotide containing a BP1 binding site located in a negative control region upstream of the delta-globin gene, suggesting a role for HMG-I(Y) in repression of adult globin genes.

Expression studies revealed that HMG-I(Y) is ubiquitously expressed in human tissues that do not express beta-globin, being present in 48 of 50 tissues and six hematopoietic cell lines examined.

C3a or C3a(desArg) alone exhibited no effect on the expression or secretion of IL-6.

Indomethacin blocked PGE2 release, but had no influence on the observed effects of C3a, suggesting that the effects of C3a on IL-6 production are independent of PGE2 formation by monocytes.

TNF and LPS stimulated vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 surface expression and adhesion of U-937 monocyte-like cells to HUVECs but not to HUAECs.

However, neither TNF or LPS stimulated VCAM-1 expression in HUAECs.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated no difference in the pattern of TNF-stimulated nuclear factor-kappaB activation between HUVECs and HUAECs.

Lysophosphatidylethanolamine (lysoPE) and other lysophospholipids did not affect LPS-induced TF activity of human monocytes.

LPS binding to plasma membrane receptors and internalization of LPS into monocytes were not affected by lysoPC.

We previously demonstrated increased HTLV-1 transcription following CD2 but not CD3 receptor cross-linking.

CD2, but not CD3, cross-linking increased cAMP detected by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) approximately fourfold.

Consistent with post-translational regulation, no change in total level of CREB protein was observed.

NO production by HUVECs is increased after the second A/R challenge, but not after the first A/R challenge.

However, while HUVECs contained endothelial NOS protein, no inducible NOS was detected in either tolerant or nontolerant cells.

Extracellular generation of NO (NO donor) did not effect the hyperadhesion response induced by the initial A/R challenge.

A/R also induced an oxidant stress in naive HUVECs, but not in A/R-tolerant HUVECs.

Role of Egr-2 in up-regulation of Fas ligand in normal T cells and aberrant double-negative lpr and gld T cells.

We previously identified a Fas ligand regulatory element (FLRE) in the Fas ligand (fasL) promoter that binds Egr family proteins and demonstrated that Egr-3 (PILOT) but not Egr-1 (NGFI-A, Krox-24, Tis-8, and Zif-268) induces transcription of fasL.

Supershift analysis revealed these proteins to be Egr-1 and Egr-2 (Krox-20); Egr-3 was not detected.

The repetitive activation of T cells (priming) enhances the expression of many cytokines, such as IL-4, but not others, such as IL-2.

Furthermore, a truncated form of NFAT1 acts as a dominant-negative, reducing IL-4 promoter activity in primed CD4 T cells and confirming the importance of endogenous NFAT to increased IL-4 gene expression by effector T cells.

Here we show that the rate of constitutive apoptosis in human neutrophils and eosinophils is greatly accelerated in both a rapid and concentration-dependent manner by the fungal metabolite gliotoxin, but not by its inactive analog methylthiogliotoxin.

Furthermore, cycloheximide displayed a similar capacity to enhance TNF-alpha induced neutrophil apoptosis even at time points when cycloheximide alone had no pro-apoptotic effect, suggesting that NF-kappaB may regulate the production of protein(s) which protect neutrophils from the cytotoxic effects of TNF-alpha.

In contrast, activation in THP-1 cells occurred in the absence of vanadate and was unaffected by catalase.

We first demonstrate that an HIV-1 provirus (SF-2 strain) very effectively replicates in thymocytes cocultured with TEC whereas this provirus, with kappaB sites deleted, fails to replicate.

Incubation of endothelial cells with oleate for 72 hours decreased the relative proportions of saturated (palmitic and stearic) acids in total cell lipids and increased the proportions of oleate in total cell lipids without significantly changing the relative proportions of polyunsaturated fatty acids.

Interestingly, Nmi lacks an intrinsic transcriptional activation domain; instead, Nmi enhances the association of CBP/p300 coactivator proteins with Stat1 and Stat5, and together with CBP/p300 can augment IL-2- and IFNgamma-dependent transcription.

Therefore, our data not only reveal that Nmi can potentiate STAT-dependent transcription, but also suggest that it can augment coactivator protein recruitment to at least some members of a group of sequence-specific transcription factors.

