Please note that I do not regularly have my girlfriend shove crutches up my a*s .

Sure , it's all based on characters created by the good doctor years ago , but it all feels like one big bathroom joke that isn't funny in the very least .

As mom plans to host a big party at home for her obsessive compulsive neat freak boss ( Mr. Humberfloob , played by Sean Hayes ) , the kids are told not to ruin the house , and are left with a noodling , overweight babysitter who falls asleep faster than Granpa does on The Simpsons .

Seuss big screen adaptation wasn't anything all that hot either ( The Grinch ) , at least it felt like it had some of that Dr. Seuss heart to it , and Jim Carrey at least brought something to the role that so many thought he didn't belong in .

This however , doesn't work in the least .

Myers spends the whole movie acting as if he had 6 too many Jolt colas , and when he isn't completely aping one of his better known characters ( i .e .

It's f*cking embarrassing and not the least bit funny .

This , along with the two kids' performances , are the only things worthwhile about this movie , and trust me , they aren't even worth the price of a RENTAL , nevermind a full price ticket to a theatre .

I didn't think it would be possible for anyone to rip the heart out of a Dr. Seuss book ...and just when you didn't think it was possible , along came Hollywood .

Don't let this happen to you .

Analysis : There may not be many things that I'm sure of , but I do know a few for absolute certain .

Leg-warmers will never make a come-back , DavidK93 IS gay , JackSommersby is NOT gay , and the world would be a much better place if every adult and child read ( and understood ) Dr. Seuss' books .

There's not a single example of Seussian literature that fails to transcend any preconceived notion of what it means to be young , old or somewhere in the middle .

I've vowed never to live through a holiday season when I don't watch the animated How the Grinch Stole Christmas !

But this review isn't about my clearly irrational desire to live in the world of Dr. Suess , it's about how Bo Welch's ( henceforth referred to as Bo Grinch ) cinematic adaptation of Seuss' Cat in the Hat has robbed me of my childhood memories .

Seuss never saw any reason not to redraw that which already exists , and neither did Bo Grinch .

This creative re-engineering draws the viewer ( or reader ) into a parallel universe where age-old lessons can be taught or re-taught without the obstructions created in the minds of this one .

Drawing things as they've never been drawn has also helped to maintain the timeless nature of Seuss' work , and avoids the pitfalls of stereotypes and geographic isolation .

Dr. Seuss was a creative visionary who never set any limits on imagination , and this is where Cat in the Hat fails to live-up to expectations .

The rights to Seuss' words might be yours , but his legacy is not !

It seemed to me that Myers forgot that he isn't on Saturday Night Live , playing to a largely adult audience .

This simply wasn't the venue for him to enlist his own brand of creative devices .

Spencer Breslin ( Conrad ) and Dakota Fanning ( Sally ) are just children themselves , and can't be held responsible for the awkwardness that is brought about by Bo Grinch and his grinchy ways .

( Yes , I realize that I'm the same person who's always saying there isn't enough nudity , but even I ascribe to some sense of good taste ) The references to a dirty hoe and a Playboy centerfold were entirely unnecessary .

I realize that younger children might not get them , but then WHY include them ?

Adults have never found this necessary to enjoy Seuss' books ; and spoiling the pristine , although sometimes misunderstood , image of the Cat in the Hat is a low blow -- even for Mike Myers .

I never even got to see what it would be like to fly a kite in the house .

I never got to see the Things bump the kites on the wall !

And we did not like it .

Not one little bit .

Ok , not everyone agrees with me : dragonfire88 , Bruguru .

Plot Details : This opinion reveals no details about the movie's plot .

I consider myself a moderate person that is not overly protective or overly liberal .

Shame on me for not checking the rating before taking the kids to the theater .

I had assumed ( like I'm sure many of you would ) that it would be rated G. It's not .

The movie is absent 4-letter words and explicit sex scenes , but the inappropriate-for-children content and mature innuendos in this movie overshadow the story line and plot .

I later discovered my 11 year old understood all of them ( I wish he hadn't ) , my 8 year old understood about 1/2 of them , and my 4 year old is still innocent enough to understood none of them ( except the "butt scene " ) .

The most memorable moments that I did not appreciate are the "butt scene " - where the cat was outfitted with a large bare bottom , using the term " Dirty Ho " - referring to a dirty gardening hoe , and an acronym for the cat's vehicle is S.H.I.T.

The story line and plot itself is poor and doesn't flow nearly as smooth as a Dr. Seuss's classic should .

I WOULD NOT SEE THIS HERE OR THERE , I WOULD NOT SEE THIS AGAIN ANYWHERE...

I guess I just thought that this movie would be as good as the Grinch , but unfortunately , it wasn't .

This movie does not even come close to being half as good as How the Grinch Stole Christmas was .

It's not the acting that makes this movie bad .

Sally doesn't know how to have fun and Conrad only knows how to have fun .

The movie changed things that were in the book and added some stuff that was never in there to begin with and didn't help the movie .

I especially didn't like the fact that there seem to be a couple of sexual innuendos unappropriate for children and completely unnecessary in the film .

The make-up wasn't too good either .

The costume and make-up of Cat look so fake that it's not even funny .

The setting wasn't exactly what I had envisioned either .

It didn't look like it had just "leapt " out of the book .

They won't know any different .

Adults and anyone who has ever read the book won't be that impressed .

Wait to get this movie for the kids when it comes out on video , it's not really worth seeing in theaters .

I never met the Doc , but I have to believe after reading as much as I have of his material , the cat he had in mind was not a vulgar pervert with bad taste in music .

While they never actually said any curse words , They got way too close on several occasions .

Based on the load at the theatre I was at , and the fact that it's been on for about 5 days now , I'd guess that approx 1000 kids are going to be walking around school looking at one another and quoting the cat when he said " SON OF A BI..." , never actually saying it , but getting to close .

Lots of kids will be saying with no understanding of what it was meant to imply , but would you want them to walk up in front of your parents , their teacher , someone at church , or someone in a store and spout off that phrase ? ?

What I didn't like was the over the top job they did on Alec's character making him the opposite of what the children's mother thought he was .

Kelly Preston : If I really have to explain why she is in the "good " section , then you haven't seen her .

OK , I'll give credit here , although I really didn't like the path they took to get there , the story line was basically the same .

The mother who was starting to doubt not only her ability to raise her son , but also her son's ability to accept responsibility and do the things we was asked to do , now had now doubt that they would all be just fine together .

Overall , this would be an ok movie for older kids , maybe , if they had a firm grasp on the understanding that some of the things you see on a movie are not acceptable in the real world .

( not saying that's good or bad , just that this movie wouldn't be their first exposure to this type of humor ) .

If you haven't figured it out by now , I wasn't real impressed with this movie .

Being a long time Doc fan , I didn't like the Grinch with Jim Carey , but it was a masterpiece compared to this one .

I really hope that Horton Hear A Who isn't up for the next book to be butchered .

I'm not sure if he should be angrier at his widow for giving studios the rights to his stories , or to the studios for stabbing his widow in the back when she trusted them .

In THE GRINCH she exercised a lot of , but not enough , control .

In THE CAT IN THE HAT , the producers and writers took the rights they had and ran with them , putting things in that the widow , let alone Dr. Seuss , didn't and wouldn't have endorsed .

A cute , innocent story ( though some Freudians will argue that it's not such ) was taken and butchered by writers who feel that the only way to make this story work is to appeal to the lowest common denominator .

You wind up not disliking , but hating , all the characters in the movie .

This movie is allegedly for kids , but I do not think it's suitable for most kids under 10 .

I am a Michael Myer fan and although " The Grinch " was not all that great , I found it watchable .

I couldn't believe it , I was insulted .

This movie has no value whatsoever .

The mother is the typical workaholic mom who has no time for discipline .

Plot Details : This opinion reveals no details about the movie's plot .

The plot is not the book’s .

I know that movies are not supposed to be fully like the book but when practically every child ( as well as adult ) in America has read the Dr. Seuss books , this is unforgivable .

The people who adapt his work to the big screen seem to have no clue what it's like to be a child .

Neither does The Cat ( Mike Myers ) in the live-action version of " The Cat In The Hat . " Plot When he comes to the Walden residence , he scares young Sally ( Dakota Fanning ) and Conrad ( Spencer Breslin ) .

If her children are unruly , or the party fails in any other way , Hank promises Joan that she will lose her job .

The Walden children are surrounded by people who should never be their role models .

Not one adult comes across as a sympathetic character .

The adults are not the least bit appealing .

As for Myers , he has no chemistry with Fanning or Breslin , who are the best parts of this movie .

He comes to the home not as the spirit of fun , but as the spirit of a stand-up comic .

This feline doesn't show Sally and Conrad how to have fun ; he shows them how to be consumers .

This film has no direction ; it's just a series of skits that just barely run long enough to constitute a feature-length film .

" The Cat In The Hat " otherwise does not have any true sense of playfulness .

Don't introduce children to the work of Dr. Seuss with the live-action " The Cat In The Hat . " Read the books to them , or let them read the books to you .

This movie is NOT for young children , which is rather disappointing because thats who would have watched the movie had it been any good .

The jokes were not that funny .

It was NOT worth the money paid .

Apparently , it is n’t nor should it even be compared to “Dead Poets Society” .

Not even the film’s young cast of Kirsten Dunst , Ginnifer Goodwin , Julia Stiles , and Maggie Gyllenhaal along with Dominic West , John Slattery , and Marcia Gay Harden could save this disappointment called “Mona Lisa Smile” .

The next day , Watson gives paintings that weren’t in the required syllabus for the students that leads to the school’s news editor Betty Warren ( Kirsten Dunst ) to saying the painting is appalling since it has no structure or textures .

When Katherine was grading papers , she meets up with Joan who questioned her grade as Katherine just wants her to state her own opinion and not someone else’s .

Not to appreciate but look beneath the paintings , notably Jackson Pollock .

After a party where Katherine revealed that she was once engaged but never made it to the altar , Betty goes into another rant over Katherine’s life and finds herself alienated by the rest of the student .

Betty becomes a thorn to some students , notably the insecure Constance as she tells her that Charlie had been going out with someone , which turned out not to be true as Betty finds her marriage crumbling .

The students began to ponder their own direction in life including Betty as Katherine is wondering if she should stay without any sense of compromise .

The film has no true , linear structure and leaves everything in a very disappointing way .

Newell still should be given credit for trying to make things interesting since the pacing of the film is attentive but it ’s given a weak script with no sense of a singular direction to begin with .

Even in the tense , dramatic moments , it does n’t feel suspenseful nor in the lighter moments , it comes out as fluff .

Julia Roberts without a doubt , is a good actress depending on what film she does .

Unfortunately in period pieces like “Mary Reilly ” and “Michael Collins” , she has never fared well and in “Mona Lisa Smile” , she does n’t really bring anything that we have n’t seen before .

No .

Maggie Gyllenhaal delivers an excellent performance although she is not the scene-stealer many are saying .

In the film’s site , they say she is fragile and all of this junk yet I never found out why she sleeps with these men or anything .

It was very clear from the start this film was made to get some attention for the Oscars but after the recent snub from the Golden Globes ( except for Best Original Song for Elton John , which is an all right song ) ; it ’s likely not to get any Oscar nominations for anyone involved except the costume and production designs .

A lot of people say , " This is a movie for kids , not adults , so don't be so harsh . "

It was so bad , I can't even think of a way to make fun of it .

My wife is very forgiving when it comes to bad movies , and even she said she wouldn't be buying this one for our video library .

One of these days I'm going to learn that ghost movies just don't scare me like they used to , and I should stop wasting my time on them in the theatres .

I'm not sure if I just got over them , or if it's just because they are all the same .

Girl Interupted and The Ring , as well as Don't Say a Word are the first to pop into my mind , with slight residues of House on Haunted Hill and maybe even a little bit of The Sixth Sense

Dr. Grey obviously doesn't believe her .

She has no idea where she is or what has happened to her .

She has no memory of what happened , all she remembers is the girl .

I'd much rather have a movie that messes with your mind rather than tests your reflexes .

I'm not sure where it started , but I want to know why almost all ghosts in recent films walk strange , in a disjointed weird way .

I don't know if I am giving anything away by saying this , but the whole "help the ghost find justice so they can rest in peace and leave me alone " thing is just getting old as well .

What I don't get is why ghosts in these situations completely terrorize the people they have chosen to help them .

I don't know if I was just fed up with the blabbermouths behind me , or if I really didn't care how the movie ended .

The pieces just didn't seem to fit right , like they were parts from a different movie or something .

Some parts worked , most didn't .

A lot of stuff was immediately obvious , and the'twists' weren't all that surprising .

I didn't really notice the special effects : that means they were good enough that they didn't stand out - that's a good thing .

I don't like it when the special effects are obvious - they should blend with the movie .

I don't remember any nudity ( well they were naked but it didn't show anything ! ) .

Unable to remember having committed an unmotivated act of such sheer brutality against a husband she loved and admired ( Charles S. Dutton ) .

My first thought was : Don't most wives that murder their husbands wake up in jail first ?

Halle as a criminal psychologist was not a believable job .

The movie talks horror and fear but delivers none .

- What if you were told that you did something terrible but you have no memory of doing it ?

That's not scary .

And she ain't no Rossellini .

Intentionally or not , the beginning of GOTHIKA has Berry misequating professional distance and aloofness .

Berry , obviously no student of ER , rattles off medical dialogue with all the conviction of reading her phone bill .

She also doesn't seem to mind some blatant exploitation - there's a shower scene that seems to be there solely for some gratuitous nudity .

Blame the director for not giving his all-star cast some instinctive direction .

Blame the actors for not being interested in their characters .

Gothika is not a bad movie .

The problem is that it's not a really good movie either .

It's all so overdone that it wasn't hard to nab every aspect of it long before they were revealed .

I will accept the supernatural within the context of nearly any film , and this is no exception .

I simply can't buy the idea that Berry would be put into the very institution she worked for and placed under the care of not only her peers , but one of her closest friends .

So she changes her approach , and the class has a wonderful discussion about what art is ( or what it isn't ) and who is qualified to define it .

Just goes to show ya , you don't mess with the rules .

Ms. Watson wants to teach these girls to be " tomorrow's leaders , not their housewives " .

Joan could get accepted to Yale , but she's not sure she wants to put off the "home life " where tradition would have her be .

Her accent was not too shabby .

She's not terrific , but not terrible either .

You don't want to see her upset ,'cause then you get upset yourself .

I'm not sure what exactly Mona Lisa Smile sets out to say , except that maybe nothing is as it seems .

It's no better to blindly shun tradition than it is to blindly follow it .

So I wasn't really sure which side I was on by the end !

So I can't say the movie didn't make me think .

On the other hand , I'm not sure what exactly I AM thinking .

Not me , though .

21 ) I'm not sure why I'm talkin' like a recuiter over here .

No doubt there were many repressed women in the pre-feminist era , but were so many of them gathered in one particular place ?

They let men treat them brutishly ( no physical abuse , mind you--the women just aren't allowed to think for themselves ) .

From the moviemakers' point of view , the speech is meant to be ironic , but it actually leaks the ugly little secret that radical feminists don't want to hear : Another woman's choice doesn't always agree with your own .

Review - Don't let this movie fool you .

But , deep down inside , this is no better than an Ed Wood film .

Indicating that they are not ready .

Tom Cruise says : " They are not ready . "

Cool Hand Luke- Remember when Paul Newman is fighting that big guy in the boxing match , and he won't give up , even though he knows he is defeated ?

Well , in The Last Samurai , there is a scene EXACTLY like it ! ! Except , instead of boxing gloves , they're wooden swords .

The Patriot- Mel Gibson's character is not proud of what he did to some French soldiers .

Tom Cruise's character is not proud of what he did to some of the Native Americans .

Though I listed only 4 examples , I counted 10 when I first came out of the theater , but I can't think of the others .

Also , the nightmares Tom Cruise had about killing the Native Americans never really comes into full focus .

He seems to have just had these nightmares , but after these nightmares , these actions don't come in anywhere else in the movies .

And he blames this one guy that led the attack for all this , and Cruise himself shot the natives without question .

He didn't even really put up a good fight against his commander's orders .

He doesn't even get tempted not to shoot .

I wish I hadn't seen this movie .

I wish that Roger Ebert hadn't given it 3 out of 4 stars and said , this is one of those rare Christmas comedies that has a heart , a brain and a wicked sense of humor , and it charms the socks right off the mantelpiece .

I'm thinking no because I walked out of that theater feeling like I had wasted 95 minutes of my time .

Santa doesn't know that he's taken Buddy back to the North Pole until he crawls out of the bag in the Elves Workshop .

The thing is , little Buddy isn't so little .

After years of not fitting in , Papa Elf finally tells Buddy that he's adopted .

His father Walter ( James Caan ) ( who doesn't know about Buddy ) lives in a magical place ( New York ) and his mother Susan ( Jane Bradbury ) died shortly after he was born .

Buddy doesn't get the joyous reunion that he was expecting .

For days , his father doesn't believe that he's his long , lost son .

Not knowing what to do , he takes Buddy home to the family .

He's immediately smitten with her but not because she has a hot body .

Believe me , you won't care .

You'll be asking yourself , is there a way to leave this movie without offending my child and husband ? ? ?

Of course in both of those circumstances , he was the actor and not the director .

Maybe the man is meant to be an actor and not a director because if he stays on the directing path , he's surely headed for a disasterous career ending ...

Farting - that was fun ( not ) .

I don't think that I'll ever be able to watch SNL again for fear of a headache .

The way he played the character of Buddy wasn't what I was expecting .

Instead of the wide-eye innocence that you get with other not so clued in movie characters ( think Tom Hanks in Big ) , what you get here is a one-track , annoying and irritating male .

I kept on thinking - if Jon Faverau can't direct you , do something for yourself dude !

But he didn't .

It's not like there was any Oscar-stretching material that they were having to deal with .

And to top it all off , there was no memorable soundtrack .

The movie had no heart .

No heart=the inability for me to overlook the mistakes made by Jon Favreau's poor directing .

Ok let me get this out of the way : I did NOT like this movie .

I don't think hes funny at all on SNL , but I was willing to give him a chance .

The special effects and props are EXTREMELY low budget and so fake its not even funny .

You can clearly tell what parts were filmed on a sound stage , as the backgrounds are blatently fake , no effort was put into them .

I'm not going to bother spelling out what happens in the movie because enough people mentioned it already .

Here are the funny parts : he drinks an entire 2 liter of coke and lets out a 30 second ( or so ) belch ; a scene where he tries to put a star on top of the christmas tree and it comes crashing down on him ; he attacks a fake Santa at a store because its not the real Santa .

No really , stop laughing .

There is no bad language at all , nothing derogatory , no put downs , nothing sexual .

I'm actually surprised Disney didn't make this movie since Disney movies aren't funny and geared towards kids .

After watching this flick , I will never watch Will Ferrell again .

He's just NOT funny .

No , not really .

Actors are brain dead , rely on childish type humor to make the audience laugh , and you don't do a very good job convincing the audience even for a moment that this is a fantasy flick .

Adults who like clean humor and Disney type not funny movies will probably like this .

I don't recommend this to anybody looking for a serious laugh , or even a little bad language .

Obviously this is just my opinion , I don't expect others to feel this way , but if you like adult humor , decent acting , a movie with a plot , and a believeable movie set , then avoid this movie like the plague .

But Will Ferrell is not the man for the job .

But Ferrell , another of those " Saturday Night Live " vets who go for nothing beyond the quick laugh , can't milk a routine to save his life .

If you're a discriminating adult , Elf probably won't be much more palatable .

While I liked what they did , it just wasn't the same .

There were loads of one-liners , funny faces , pranks , and even a few brushes with vulgarity ( none of which would compel me to deprive my own kids of the pleasure , had I any ) .

That's basically it , except for some line of bologna about showing the boy ( Spencer Breslin ) how bad it is to make a mess . . by making a bigger one , and showing the girl ( Dakota Fanning ) how not to be so uptight .

No kidding .

One of my favorite parts of the original was when they went on the big scavenger hunt for the moss-covered three handled family gredunza , and they have to mark all the places where it isn't .

It isn't in this keyhole ( No ? ) and it isn't on my knee ( Hmm , mark the keyhole K-300 , mark the knee 57-G! ) Okay , it's a little sad that I still remember that .

But I was saddened that they couldn't have found a way to at least incorporate this into the new one .

As if this all were not enough , the mystery surrounding the mother has been completely uncloaked .

She's a legally blonde ... something , I don't remember ( my bad ! ) and she is hosting a party at her house that night .

If it's not clean , she will be fired , because her boss has verminophobia .

Couldn't they just have gotten the house clean for the sake of having it clean ?

And not to hit below the belt or anything , but they looked absolutely frightening !

I don't know how much Smash Mouth paid ( or got paid ) to have 1/3 of their album played behind this thing either , but it must've been a pretty penny !

Acting ? Don't ask .

Don't know if the same will hold true for you folks , probably not !

Bottom line , don't be a rule breaker .

I'll be the first to admit that I was never a big fan of Dr. Seuss's , Cat In The Hat .

When Ron Howard and Brian Grazer announced that they were moving forward with a Cat In The Hat movie , I wasn't expecting much .

After all , The Grinch , also based upon a Dr. Seuss book , had a lot of flash , but not much substance .

My nine year old loved the trailers and hey - who can say no to a nine year old ?

I assume you're familiar with the book so I won't rehash the entire plot...The movie loosely follows the book , taking lots of modern day liberties .

One day , their usual babysitter is unable to stay with them and Mom must find a replacement .

Before returning to work , she specifically tells Conrad and Sally that they are not to step a foot into the living room , or else .

What , his buddy Ron Howard wasn't available ?

Besides phoning in their performances , they seemed to have no real love for each other .

He's not .

Ewww...the selections were horrible , not to mention the fact that the tunes stuck out like sore thumbs .

There were several , obvious glitches and mistakes ( that should have been handled in editing but were not ) .

But oh no .

Mr. Director must not be able to deal with animated characters ...

Now Kelly Preston didn't offend me , so I guess you can say that this was the most redeeming part of the movie .

Poor Buddy was abandoned to an orphanage and never knew his real parents .

For some reason , Santa failed to notice his presence until they arrived back at the North Pole and Buddy crawled out of the bag .

He did n’t seem to be a “bad guy” , just someone who managed to get off track in life as his main focus became dollar signs and not being happy with his life .

Buddy may not have been the “perfect” elf , but he’s picked up some amazing talents and abilities from being around them .

There’s not much really in the way of gross-out humor , which was something I really appreciated .

The one bodily-noise humor comes after he chugs a full 2-liter of soda , but my feelings of dread that this was going to take a downturn in the humor department after this were not founded .

He’s got a child-like innocence as he wanders around the city and has no real idea of the consequences of his actions at times .

His expressions of wide-eyed innocence at the events going on around him are also near-perfect , and not exaggerated nor over-done .

While the film raptly kept my 8-year-old’s interest , my 3-year-old was not impressed at all .

It failed to capture his attention as many of the animated films do , and he fell asleep in my arms near the end .

It's also a good film if your kids still believe in Santa or are at the cusp where they are starting to have doubts , much like The Santa Clause was for my older daughter ( who opted to hang out with her friends rather than go to the theater with us - her loss ) .

I’m not a Will Ferrell fan at all , but I did enjoy this movie .

Not only does the film open up against The Matrix Revolutions , the yuletide feature goes head to head with the highly publicized The Cat in the Hat and Disney’s The Haunted Mansion later this month .

Buddy is not the typical elf , his large size being the biggest factor .

Buddy , who has never been to the human world , is unfamiliar with many of the things we are accustomed to like revolving doors and food products that don’t include sugar .

This happens mostly in part to Ferrell’s performance but there are also plenty of moments that come off as hilarious even without the lead star .

Ferrell is able to make Buddy the elf both lovable and hilarious without pushing the personality of the character too far as to make him annoying and pathetic .

The only problem lied not with Caan’s performance but the character itself in how quickly the character changed his attitude at the end without really having a change-of-heart experience .

It’s the wonderful atmosphere and Will Ferrell’s exuberant performance that makes this film a delightful treat for the whole family can enjoy without one member of the family being alienated by certain material .

Ferrell’s over-the-top performance should be a decisive enough reason to venture to the local movie theater and see Elf but if you are not truly convinced , here may be a better reason : Elf will keep the children busy for an hour and a half while the parents do their Christmas shopping .

He then grows up to realize that he is not an elf , and ventures out into the real world to find his father ( James Caan ) .

He finds him , and at first is not accepted .

Not really cry like big time , but a tear did roll down my cheek , in more than one place .

Weird , isn't it ?

This movie is a very good family movie not just because it's about Christmas but because it has a good message to it .

I have seen this movie twice now and can never stop laughing at Buddy's( Will Farrel ) actions to the city .

I really enjoy how Will can make a movie without using adult humor .

I only have one bad thing to say about this movie ... I really don't like the angry elf .

My boyfriend doesn't even like Christmas and told me he had goosebumps for the last 20 minutes of the movie .

That story was not an exceedingly long one , so as you can imagine the film has been extended quite a bit with original material in order to make it a feature length film .

But more often than not , he’s very funny , and at times hilarious .

Make no mistake , neither one is as charming as , say , McCauley Culkin in Home Alone or Uncle Buck , but they are convincing enough in their roles for the film to work .

Kelly Preston has little to do and not much time to do it in .

When we attended , the kids in the audience seemed magically enthralled , eyes fixed on the screen throughout the film and with nary a sound escaping their lips except for the frequent fits of laughter .

Plot Details : This opinion reveals no details about the movie''s plot .

Yes , believe it or not , had the music not been suspenseful and skillfully placed at scenes where the audience got tense , then this film would have been a flop .

Well , I am usually never disappointed with Halle's acting , she is extremely good .

What was not so great about the movie was that there were gaps in the plot .

Plus , the role that Downey Jr. played was a little unclear--was he an obstacle or not ?

These questions were not really answered .

The idea of the film is not new either .

Beginning with " no windows and no doors , " you are sucked right into the spirit of the house - moving doors , talking head in a crystal ball , hearse with skeleton horse attached , tombstones with funny saying on it .

That the dad is Eddie Murphy to me isn't that special a thing .

The monolithic ceilings , the candlelit hallways , the suits of armor , the gigantic fireplace ( might be known as gates of Hell , or it might not ) .

I'm not going to give away the plot .

But they don't last long .

This movie is not too scary for the youngest of children , but the plot might confuse kids under 8 or 9 . PG is a good rating for a few mild oaths .

Plot Details : This opinion reveals no details about the movie''s plot .

As the parent of a 5 year old who had just returned from a one week vacation at Walt Disney World , the inescapable fact was that we WERE going to see this movie (unless it was X-rated due to full-frontal nudity , etc. ) whether we adults liked it or not .

This is not the usual in-your-face CGI tour-de-force Hollywood product .

It was a little scarier than I expected , but it was not too scary for my 5 year old .

There was some mild swearing , but nothing that a kid doesn't hear on T.V. these days .

This movie is not a comedy just because it has Eddie Murphy in it , and it is not a horror movie just because of the subject matter .

I personally don't want to take my five year old to a "real " Eddie Murphy comedy or a "real " horror movie .

If you are looking for what passes today for "wholesome family entertainment" , a movie that will entertain your youngster without teaching him a new vocabulary , as well as not boring you to tears , then this is the movie for you .

I've got to admit that the first time I saw the trailer for Calendar Girls I wasn't exactly charged with anticipation .

Nevertheless I recognized that not only did the trailer look fun , but I had been pleasantly surprised by another British comedy that didn't appeal to me , Bend It Like Beckham .

Before he died he wrote a poem about his flowers , and mentioned how flowers are like Women , they get more beautiful with age ( note-this does not necessarily reflect my own opinion ) .

However since the women's Institute never makes money off their sales Chris decides to try a different approach , and gets a few of the other members to join her in making a nude calendar .

That's nude , not naked , because they think that as long as they keep themselves covered behind fruit and things then it will be OK .

Crosbie and the other actresses didn't have to rely on just themselves though because they had the support of some good writers .

Yet what I liked best about the writing was not the jokes themselves , but with the way the material was handled .

It's based on a true story , but that hasn't prevented historical inaccuracies in the past , and whilst I don't really know anything about what really happened , I do know that the film is more than just another feel good comedy .

It's never strong or prolonged but there are a few moments of nudity in the film that will likely earn the same sort of childish comments as Cathy Bates infamous scene in About Schmidt .

However you feel about nudity in films , it's unlikely that many people will actually want to see this so I posted this little warning here .

If you don't think you'll mind some mild nudity involving older ladies though , then Calendar Girls is a fun , well acted and at times emotional movie that's worth seeing .

I found it interesting that the story was told well and it corresponded enough with the ride to have a familiar tone , but had enough originality that I did not feel as though I was on the ride… I have ridden hundreds of times before ( being a former mouse employee ) .

Not since Dan Akroyd donned his own thread bare red and white outfit , in the movie Trading Places , has the world seen such a sad and pathetic Santa Claus as the one played by Billy Bob Thornton in the newly released motion picture Bad Santa .

Kris Kringle will never be looked at in the same way again for anyone that sees this hilarious uptake on the bearded man from the North .

Snot nosed , overweight , and generally messed up in the head , Kelly’s scenes with Thornton bring out the humanity in a man that otherwise has none .

I think I got lung cancer ( I know this is no laughing matter ) just watching this movie .

I hadn't laughed that hard or that consistently at just a preview in a very very long time .

For those who had the same fear as I did , you may have no fear .

The manager then goes to the mall security guard , Gin ( Bernie Mac ) , who is on a power trip that just won't end .

It isn't easy , given Willie's penchant for having sex in the plus size fitting rooms , showing up late and or drunk to work , and becoming slower and slower on the safecracking year after year .

He questions why he doesn't stand up to the skate punks who pick on him , and tries his best to teach him to fight .

What makes Bad Santa such a good movie , and not just a funny one ( an apt description for say , Mallrats , which is far from good , but damned funny ) , is that it holds no expectations for itself .

The scenes between Ritter and Mac in particular feel like they weren't even shot at the same time with them in the same room .

Completely vulgar and politically incorrect ( a few choice losers are protesting because it's put out by a Disney subsidiary , I say to all of you : GET A LIFE) , Bad Santa is most certainly NOT for the kiddies ( as if the previews didn't already make THAT expressly clear ) .

Terry Zwigoff's " Bad Santa " is not for you .

At one point , he wets his Santa pants right in front of the children , and this is actually one of his more forgivable offenses because he's so drunk he doesn't even realize what he's done .

If you play it well , some people will not be able to separate the actor from the character and excoriate the performer as a monster just for doing his job to the best of his ability .

It is to the endless credit of Thornton , an actor who has made a career out of socially maladjusted misfits ( " Sling Blade" , " A Simple Plan " ) , that he seems to have taken to this role without a moment's thought about what a monster like Willie could do to his public image .

He growls the character's endless obscenities with a phlegm-throated relish , throws himself into twisted misbehavior with heedless abandon ...and what's most amazing of all , somehow manages , against all our better instincts , to move us with this portrayal of a hateful man by never letting us forget that he hates himself most of all .

" I am not Santa Claus" , he tells a little boy .

" If anything , I'm living proof that there isn't any Santa Claus . "

Willie is a man who has lost his capacity to believe in anything , most of all himself , and the wasted excess that is his life is no Dionysian revel , but rather the extended suicide of a man who feels that he has more than earned all his self-inflicted suffering ( at one point , feeling that even he is being too easy on himself , Willie tries to take himself out with carbon monoxide in a garage ...all while wearing the Santa suit , of course ) .

This is a monumental comic performance , funny as hell and lived in down to the gin-soaked bones by a great actor , and the Oscar nominees are incomplete if they do not include him ( which I have every reason to suspect they will not , as Gooding's Rain Man of the gridiron is much more the type of up-with-people role the Oscars tend to reward ) .

Willie , in Phoenix with Marcus for their annual Christmas scam ( they've been pulling their Santa heist for years , living high off the proceeds , but always financially dry as a bone come Thanksgiving ) , finds that the job will not come as easy as it has to him in the past .

His name is Thurman Merman ( Brett Kelly ) , and he's a sad , overweight eight-year-old boy who latches on to Willie and won't let go .

And Thurman , to his credit , does not believe that this bleary-eyed human trash heap is really Santa Claus .

Thankfully , " Bad Santa " manages to tell this Yuletide story of a monster's salvation without resorting to the " Will Ferrell learns the true meaning of Christmas " cliches that have sent many a holiday audience into sugar shock over the years .

Director Zwigoff's past films , including the remarkable documentary " Crumb " and the dark but surprisingly sweet " Ghost World " , have evinced a soft spot for the disenfranchised and misunderstood souls of the world , and the miracle of those films is that he allows us to see and embrace the humanity of these creatures without soft-pedaling the weirdness and nihilism that has made them outsiders to begin with .

Kelly , likewise , is not your typical cookie-cutter cute movie kid .

But when Willie is dumbstruck by Thurman's simple sweet Christmas gift of a wooden pickle , when Thurman announces that Santa hasn't brought him a Christmas present for the last two years "because I know I'm just a dips--t loser " ...you can't help but root for these guys .

Maybe not to become president , but at least for Thurman to get the pink stuffed elephant he so dearly wants for Christmas .

That Zwigoff manages to move us with these characters , all the while causing us to laugh in disbelief at the extremity of Willie's awfulness and the film's lack of faith in the standard Hollywood-Christmas quick fix , is a great testament to both the director's delicate touch and to the skilled work of writers John Requa and Glenn Ficarra , who also scripted the darker-and-funnier-than-expected " Cats and Dogs " ( the script went through several uncredited rewrites , including one by executive producers Joel and Ethan Coen and one by Zwigoff himself ) .

It's a brazen , daring , no-holds-barred comic assault on many of the values that we hold most dear , from the sanctity of family to the importance of good personal hygiene .

And , amazingly enough , it still manages to carry a potent message about how no person is beyond salvation if he can find it within his pickled , diabolical soul to commit one act that is for the good of the world and others .

" Bad Santa " reminds us of a message that is always useful to hear : no one , even the most loathsome of us all , is completely without value .

Billy-bob is so unredeemable and disgusting that you can't help , but laugh when brat after brat climbs aboard his tipsy lap and lists their demands .

That in itself wouldn't be so bad , but eventually Marcus and his horrible girlfriend kill the security guard and during their annual robbery , double-cross Billy-bob .

By this point , Billy-bob has not exactly reformed his ways , but now , at least cares enough about the fat loser kid to want to get him a gift ( a pink elephant ) .

The focus group ending bothered me ; it felt a little bit like the writer didn't know how to end it .

I wasn't a huge fan of the dark turn it took , but I didn't think it hurt the film as much as the happy ending .

This is not the type of film I normally enjoy seeing in the theater , by the way .

The Knapely chapter of the Women's Institute ( W.I. ) isn't very interesting .

A few conflicts were developed that never found any resolution in the film .

Of course , there is no absolute necessity to wrap everything up neatly by the end of an hour and a half , but it is nice to see at least the beginnings of a resolution on most of the issues .

This segment of the film , while funny at times , devolves into a not-too-subtle critique of Hollywood and the television industry .

That said , it doesn't by any means ruin the film .

The few flaws hardly detract from the general sense of enjoyment engendered by the movie .

Even if this kind of film isn't your cup of tea , think about renting it when it hits your local video store .

The film is based on the real-life events from a Yorkshire village a few years ago , although the Director was keen on maintaining that the individual characters in the film are not themselves based on the real-life women .

Whilst most of the group are initially reluctant , the fifty-something middle-class folk are gradually talked round into stripping off ( “nude , not naked” , Annie is keen to point out ) , with their biblical parts ( or “front bottoms ” if you like ) carefully concealed behind implements traditionally associated with the WI.

However , none of them could imagine the impact that the calendar would have over the coming weeks , as it transcends them to superstar status way beyond their village .

The northerness and nudity inevitably leads it to be compared to ‘The Full Monty’ , but its quirks differentiate it from its predecessor and there does not appear to be an intention to mimic .

Mirren and Walters , surely two of the most talented British actresses of their generation , give great performances and bounce off each other beautifully , easily switching from comedy to drama when required without being hammy and trying too hard .

John ( played perfectly by Alderton ) is always optimistic and upbeat during his illness , and the scenes with Anne are warm and touching rather than melancholy and melodramatic .

Complementing each other rather than any one person trying to dominate the screen , the marvellous cast match the playful script .

A good old-fashioned straightforward plot with the emphasis on script and characters rather than having a deep philosophical meaning , it is fantastically watchable and jam-packed with witty one-liners and should appeal to a wide ranging audience .

I still haven't forgiven Tom for what he did to Nicole .

I don't think that he's a particularly gifted actor however , like Britney Spears , he is the consummate entertainer .

Their own people , specifically those who do not wish to see the modern ways take over their world .

Unfortunately , the government doesn't want to hear that and despite Algren's proof , they send a group in to hold the samurai’s back from disturbing a railroad .

Well relax , I didn't .

Even the hap-hazard beard and scruff couldn't hide his pretty-boy face and that my friends , was distracting .

He had a screen presence that I haven't seen in a long time .

His charisma ( magnetic , charming , forceful , and mysterious ) is what pushed me to recommend this movie and I really wish that the entire story would have focused around him and not Tom .

I felt cheated that there was a lack of emotional bonding between the characters .

I mean , there was some between Algren and Katsumoto ( but not nearly enough ) and virtually nothing but superficial ties with the rest of the characters .

Although I'm thrilled that they didn't have Tom doin' everybody , I felt a little cheated about his interactions with the opposite sex .

In addition , for a movie that didn't have enough emotional bonding , it relied a lot on melodrama to manipulate the audience .

Girls , if you strongly dislike blood and guts please know that while there is lots of blood shed , most of the scenes were not horribly gross .

As far as the story goes , I can't vouch to any of the historical accuracies of it so if you are one of those sticklers for factual accounts , you might want to do your research before you go .

The main problem with ‘The Last Samurai’ is not that the plot is almost exactly the same as both ‘Dances with Wolves ’ and ‘Shogun’ , but that it assumes you ’ve seen both those movies , and can’t seem to decide whether or not it thinks you want to see them again .

It’s left to you then to either be able to get something out of that line or not .

We’re not across the line into something like alternate-reality sci-fi , but we’re approaching it .

All that said , there are only two things keeping this movie from being not only five stars , but also an instant classic ; it ’s ending ( and I mean the entire last thirty minutes ) , and its absolute lack of daring .

Instead of ‘daring’ , I might actually say its lack of honor ( to itself ) , but that is a jaunt toward irony I choose to avoid .

I’ve never been a Cruise fan , and even now he feels like an odd choice for the role to me , but he manages it far better than I’d have predicted he could .

That’s not to say he’s perfect .

There’s still quite a bit of the Hollywood star coming through in his performance , but he’s not horrible , and certainly delivers something at least more watchable than his norm .

There are a few brilliantly crafted scenes in which Katsumoto is in the background , off-center , and not exactly doing anything .

Not so here .

Panoramic views of rolling plains and hills , sunrises with a hint of cloud cover , and sweeping shots of virgin forest , are not exactly on the cover of “ What’s New and Exciting in Beautiful Pictures Monthly” .

It’s gorgeous , sure , but it ’s not exactly doing anything .

It has no real daring to it , even though the first half will lead you to expect some .

It’s stagy , and manages to avoid being described as ‘formulaic’ only based on the uninteresting technicality that no one’s used the formula before .

Still , I’m probably giving a very negative impression of everything to do with this movie that I give four stars ( out of five ) .

I’ve always been easy on movies that try to do something excellent and fail , and I’m not of a mind to change that now .

I should qualify that , because the question of whether or not the creators were actually trying to do something excellent ( as opposed to something that would win awards ) is open to debate , and frankly , I’m not sure which side I’m on .

OK , I'm not going to lie to you here .

I'd heard the hype , I'm not opposed to Tim Cruise in general ( even if I did waste seven dollars seeing Vanilla Sky in theaters ) , and I went under the impression that after the travesty I'd just seen in Bad Boys II , anything out there would probably be look like Citizen Kane in comparison .

Mind you , this shouldn't be all that hard , as the military is using guns , while the opposing force of Samuria warriors is using bows , arrows and swords .

Without revealing any more about the movie , I'll just note that I was mildly dissatisfied with the Hollywood ending to the movie .

Speaking of Cruise , when he decide not to suck ?

Cruise seemed to immerse himself in the role like I can't remember him ever doing before .

Regardless , I wouldn't be far off if I said this is one of the his greatest performances .

The rest of the cast is phenomenal , but none greater than Ken Watanabe .

Never slow and never boring , director Edward Zwick manages to find that rare balance between action and drama that all directors strive for , but rarely attain .

The movie is respectful enough of its subject matter not to put all the glory around its central character and that is what helps this movie to shine .

Cruise is a fine lead actor , never stealing the spotlight , but always commanding enough presence for us to believe the film .

It works perfectly for the film , because this is a character drama and a war epic , not a story-driven film .

There is no need for an overly complex plot , because what we’re expected to be drawn to here is these people and why they’re so willing to fight for what they believe in .

It may not be wholly original at all , but it works .

These are not savage warriors as the early goings of the film would have us believe , but they are families , fathers fighting to give their children some tradition to cherish .

It’s not simply all out war , but it ’s stylistic in its approach as well .

It is perfectly shot and perfectly directed to an emotional resonance not often found outside something like Peter Jackson’s The Lord of the Rings .

Cruise trains fiercely with the town warriors , refusing to stop until he can no longer move , and earning the respect of the villagers .

In short , he realizes that these people are not the bad guys .

I will not rest until I get the word out this is one of the best movies out for 2003 !

It is not quite perfect , but is the only film I've seen since X2 that succeeds on almost every level it set out to attain .

As I'm not the first review here , everyone should know the story by now .

He gets hired to train a new "western " style army for the Emperor of Japan , but gets captured after a failed first attempt at defeating the Samurai rebellion .

I forced my reluctant wife ( who had no interest ) to see it , and she left the theatre happily surprised .

For me who had such high expectations this did not disappoint .

So please disregard all those'not historically correct' complaints you may read .

The director has said upfront they tried to be extremely accurate on all things for that era , but the story is not a true one .

Yes it does have its predictable moments , but for me this did not distract from enjoying an epic tale .

Although we see Cruise's on all the promotional material , his is not the best you've seen yet .

Acting wise , Cruise stays on top of his game , no I don't think it is " Oscar-worthy " despite the amount of training he did for the role , but he really hasn't been better .

I honestly couldn't say .

How can I not be blow away from the intense battle scenes !

Never have you seen the Samurai sword wielded with such amazing skill ...by everyone in this film .

Last but not least I shouldn't forget to mention the gorgeous cinematagraphy and score .

The writers didn't know how to properly close it so they stamped it with the all too typical "hollywood hero " end .

How ridiculous is it every Samurai gets killed on the battlefield except Algren , especially when they let loose the heavy artillery on the charging Samurai .

